  
 
 
 
 
Walter’s Deal 
A STORY BY PHILIPP LEHNER 
 
2 
 
 
© 2016 Philipp Lehner 
 
Edited by Auri. 
 
Proofread by Khimitsu, Michael and Nine. 
 
This is a work of fiction. Names, characters, businesses, places, events and 
incidents are either the products of the author’s imagination or used in a 
fictitious manner. Any resemblance to actual persons, living or dead, or 
actual events is purely coincidental. 
 
www.muddasheep.com 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
 
 
 
A young, lean man was standing in the basement of his home, calculating 
and conceptualizing. As usual, the house of his parents was empty, except 
for him: Walter, the scientist. That’s what he liked to call himself. It wasn’t 
official or anything like that. It wasn’t a hobby either; it was something that 
had taken over his life without him choosing to do so. It just happened to 
be the one thing he was interested in. The only thing he was actually good 
at. 
And he was about to prove it. To whom? Walter didn’t know. To the 
people of the school he had dropped out of? To the whole town? To his 
country? Or could it be - to the entire world? 
In any case, the rat in its cage would believe in his abilities soon. 
Hopefully. 
Walter took off his obligatory white coat and threw it on the back of a 
nearby chair. It was getting hot due to the running machines, or because of 
his nervousness. A lot had been building up to this very moment. Too 
often he had argued with his parents, too many nights he had spent 
immersed in his project, forgetting to sleep and eat. 
It was true that his parents gave him free reign to ruin his own life 
however he wanted, but that doesn’t mean his father wouldn’t want his 
son to inherit and run the Trimond car company sometime soon. 
His mother didn’t care that much, saying her own father had been very 
similar. Indeed, Walter’s grandfather had left a bunch of notes which 
actually helped him to foster his belief that he was on his destined track.  
And he would stay on that road. His parents were notorious 
globetrotters, so, most of the time, his father’s criticism would barely reach 
him. 
It was already past midnight when all these pesky thoughts crossed 
Walter’s mind. This time of the night had proven to be his most successful. 
Usually, Walter let his body sleep from around eleven o’clock until late in 

 
4 
the afternoon. On Sundays he’d follow his long time tradition of not 
sleeping at all, health be damned. 
As Walter was fiddling around on his current brainchild - the machine 
of his dreams – his fingers slipped into the abyss of the huge machinery 
and he got jolted by a shock. The screwdriver in his left hand was thrown 
over his left shoulder into the array of books resting on an old shelf behind 
him. 
There he was, sitting on the ground, shaking his head, trying to get his 
hair straight again. After coming back to his senses, he immediately 
stopped caring about his hair, stood up, picked up the screwdriver and 
went back to work. There wasn’t even time for cursing. Ever since his fifth 
birthday Walter had been sure that if he could challenge time to a duel, 
he’d win hands down. 
There. It was done. Once again his mind went over the list of 
components needed and checked if they were properly connected.  
Yep, everything seemed to be in order. 
He marched into a rather dark corner of the basement, opened one of 
the cages and grabbed the rat. It protested loudly and even bit Walter ’s 
worker hands, but he didn’t care to notice. The rat was put into a glass 
booth which had wires all over the surface, running into the apparatus 
next to it. Walter had designed the booth for a different purpose, so the rat 
appeared way too small for it. 
There was an identical booth on the opposite side of the room, also 
decorated with black wires, making it look like a frozen black oil fountain.  
Walter wiped his forehead, closed the glass booth, and the rat’s calls for 
help were muted. 
Maybe check the wires again, Walter thought. So he did. Like a hunter 
following the tracks of a deer, he traced every wire forth and back. 
Everything looked fine. Walter wanted to move forward with the 
experiment, but the images of what had happened last time jumped into 
his mind, urging him to thoroughly inspect the machinery one more time. 
No doubt about it, everything was in order, precisely as the plan in his 
head instructed. 
With a swift move he flipped the blue switch on the apparatus. Sparks 
appeared everywhere, the lights went out. The machinery started 
humming a tune, just like a soprano from a choir. The sparks’ sounds 
resembled high-hats of a drum set. 
While Walter couldn’t hear the rat’s complaints anymore, he certainly 
noticed that its mouth was shut and it was nervously looking around. 
Walter knew what was coming as the machinery heightened its tone and 
 
5 
he closed his eyes firmly. 
An almost painful white light filled the room for an instant. And then - 
silence. 
The light went back to normal. The machinery’s concert was over. 
Walter slowly opened his eyes. This was it. Either his mind would receive 
a satisfying visual, or not. He considered keeping his eyelids closed; he 
wouldn’t want to cope with yet another disappointment. But his biological 
cameras were cold and relentless. With uncompromising determination 
they took a glance at the booth containing the rat. Or, shall we say, the 
booth in which the rat had been sitting in. Walter jumped to the booth and 
pressed his hands and nose against the warm glass. For years his eyes had 
been doing a fine job, but now he just couldn’t believe them. 
The rat was gone. 
Then again, this hadn’t been the entire plan. Walter hastily stood up 
and ran towards the opposite side of the room. 
Behind the glass of the other booth, the rat had already resumed its 
complaining. 
The scientist smiled. 
 
6 
 
 
 
The morning sun was shining through the window, greeting Xave, who 
was half asleep in his bed, eyes shut. For a moment, he felt two decades 
younger, expecting his mother to carry a warm smile into his room, 
reminding him to get up for school. 
“Xave, you’re going to be late,” she had used to say in her beautiful 
voice, making it a bit easier to set the first foot on the cold floor. 
He slowly opened his eyes, embraced reality and took a glance at the 
red digits beside his bed. 
It was precisely seven in the morning. 
Xave moaned, yawned and stretched his middle-aged body, and then, 
just like the last dozen years, he set his right foot on the unwelcoming 
laminated ground, and, after taking a deep breath, the left one too. Finally, 
he stood up. 
A few minutes and a quick shower later he was sitting in the kitchen of 
his old apartment, his short black hair air-drying, his right hand resting 
beside his cup of coffee, his left one holding the newspaper. 
Xave always thought of two types of people reading the news. The first 
being the consumers, the casual crowd, looking for shocking and violent 
news to fuel their gossip talk at work. The second type, the one he thinks 
himself to be a part of, were the seekers; people who can use information 
and make something out of it. 
“See a need, fill a need,” is what Xave’s father had continually preached 
when sitting on Xave’s bed in the evening. 
“See a need, fill a need. See a need, fill a need,” Xave’s thoughts would 
sing in a constant rhythm to drive his eyes, judging each headline carefully 
and questioning its value. 
There were the usual killings, the usual politics - in both of which he 
saw several needs, but none he was interested in filling - and the usual 
trash talk. Arguing neighbors, dogs with weird patterns shaved into their 
fur, newly born rare animals in zoos, ghost sightings, latest gibberish about 
celebrities (who was married to whom for how long before their 

 
7 
umpteenth breakup), and an interview with some scientist about-  
Whatever. 
Xave folded the newspaper, put it aside, downed his coffee and then 
rested for a while, looking outside one of the kitchen windows. The early 
summer sun was still trying to cheer him up, and the ceiling fan was 
putting all effort into blowing a calming breeze down his back. 
Everything Xave had just read formed a mass of information in his 
mind, which he bent and turned to look at and through it in all angles, 
while ripping out parts that wouldn’t fit into the puzzle he was trying to 
solve. Only emptiness remained after the process. 
Xave was about to doze off, when the window got smashed in. 
He jumped up, trying to get hold of the situation. A whirling ball of 
white feathers was bouncing around in his kitchen, chirping loudly, 
panicking. Xave’s heart pushed itself to new limits. His kitchen turned into 
a pool of chaos. And he would not approve of chaos that wasn’t of his own 
creation. 
Xave quickly ran into the living room, grabbed the holster off the 
couch, ran back into the kitchen, pulled out the gun and shot at the raging 
pigeon. 
In the next split second, the second window behind the bird caught the 
bullet and burst into pieces, the bird jerked upwards in a deadly refle x, 
steering towards the rotating blades of the ceiling fan. 
An explosion of blood and feathers followed, painting the whole 
kitchen with abstract forms. Xave froze for a minute, while torn plumage 
was gracefully being brought down by gravity. Just then he realized that 
he could’ve simply grabbed the bird and thrown it back out the window, 
which would’ve prevented the mess he was standing in. Then again, it had 
been too long since the last use of his gun. He felt invigorated, even though 
his ears did not agree with the sudden noise onslaught and rang alarm. 
Everything that had been resting on the table was now lying on the 
floor in odd positions, covered by a thin layer of feathers and blood.  
Like an angel, shot down from the sky, Xave thought. 
He holstered the gun and brought it back to the living room, putting it 
next to his coat, which was always lying on the couch at the same spot. The 
kitchen’s mess sought Xave’s attention, so he had to go back and fill the 
kitchen’s need.  
With a small plastic shovel he collected the shards of his broken cup 
and some of the feathers, which refused to let go off the ground due to the 
sticky blood.  
 
8 
Then he picked up the newspaper. The see-a-need-fill-a-need-thing. The 
thing full of celebrities, grotesquely detailed accidents, worthless 
hyperbole- 
And an interview with a scientist. 
He slowly skimmed through the pages. Because, naturally, he didn ’t 
have anything else to do. Standing in coffee, blood and feathers, he read 
the interview with a scientist called Walter Trimond about the newly 
discovered technology of, as the newspaper called it, beaming. 
 
9 
 
 
 
The Inventor of Beaming 
 
An interview with Walter Trimond, by Madeleine Long. 
 
As I arrive at the simple, yet elegant house, I get excited. Am I really 
going to meet the man who claims to have succeeded in what other 
scientists deem impossible? 
I knock on the door, as there is no sign of a bell. I hear footsteps 
approaching, and then the door gets opened and a man with short brown 
hair and glasses looks at me. After telling him that I’m here for the 
interview, he lets me in, takes off my coat and offers me a cup of coffee. 
The house seems to be nicely decorated, with a lot of attention to detail, 
most obviously the work of a woman. Is Mr. Trimond married? Or was he? 
We sit down on a couch in the living room, which for some reason doesn’t 
seem to be used quite often. Walter folds his arms; he seems anxious, but 
underneath that layer I see genius. 
 
Madeleine Long: How are you today? 
Walter Trimond: I’m fine, thank you. A bit nervous though. And tired. 
How about you? 
Madeleine: Nervous, yes. I can’t believe I’m sitting opposite to a man 
who has invented beaming. 
Walter: Well, I certainly wouldn’t call it beaming. 
Madeleine: Why not? Most people who have watched Star Trek know 
that it’s a synonym for teleportation. 
Walter: The only appropriate use of the word “beaming” finds itself in 
trivial literature. My invention is much more than just a gimmick of a 
television series. 
Madeleine: So, you don’t like Star Trek? 
Walter: Star Trek is just an idea, far from reality. 
Madeleine: Have you given your invention a different name then?  

 
10 
Walter: No. Well, in my journals I simply refer to it as “travelling”. But 
it has no mass appeal to it, I’m afraid. 
Madeleine: Can you tell me how “travelling” works? 
Walter: I could ask you how interviewing works and I’m sure there are 
dozens of books written about it. So, you should understand why I can ’t 
just summarize my years of work in a few sentences. 
Madeleine: I wasn’t talking about the technical background. I’d like to 
know how, say, a tourist would use it. 
Walter: Oh. Well, you step into the one container, somebody presses a 
button, and a few seconds later you appear in the container on the other 
side. 
Madeleine: Wow. 
Walter: Yes, breathtaking, isn’t it? 
Madeleine: Can you show me? 
Walter: Not right now, it needs a lot of power, and I’ve already used it 
too often this month. I get hefty electricity bills, believe me. 
Madeleine: How can you pay for it? I don’t think you have time left for 
a regular job, right? 
Walter: My father owned a car factory and I’m an only-child. 
Madeleine: Owned? You mean, he retired? 
Walter: (sighs) Yes, you could say that. 
Madeleine: What about your mother? 
Walter: My mother is a retired psychology teacher. 
Madeleine: What are your parents doing now? 
Walter: I’d rather not talk about it. You’re here for my invention, 
remember? 
Madeleine: Right. How did you get the idea which led you to invent 
beaming? 
Walter: Well, like most ideas, I stumbled upon it by accident. I saw a 
documentation of physicists trying to “copy” and “move” electrons over 
short distances, a small step towards moving entire organic bodies. I 
picked up the trail and here I am. 
Madeleine: So, basically you started from scratch and now you’re ahead 
of others who’ve worked on it for several years before you? 
Walter: You could say that. 
Madeleine: What did you use to test your invention? 
Walter: I started with vegetational items, small leaves, branches, and 
then mice and rats. I’ve also experimented with other things, like a CD 
player, clothes, and such. 
Madeleine: And I suppose it didn’t always succeed, right? 
 
11 
Walter: Correct. Only a month ago I got my first positive result.  
Madeleine: What happened to the animals? 
Walter: Well, most of them just disappeared. They weren’t coming out 
on the other end with dislocated body parts or something horrible like 
that. Mostly. 
Madeleine: Mostly? 
Walter: I’d rather not talk about that either. 
Madeleine: Have you ever tried it yourself? 
Walter: Not yet. I want to make sure it works, so I need a couple more 
tests with animals, possibly apes. 
Madeleine: And you really can’t demonstrate your invention now? 
Walter: I would like to, but I can’t. I’ve prepared a video though. 
[He hands me a video tape, which I watch afterwards. It shows Walter’s 
basement, just like you would imagine a scientist’s cave, and a rat getting 
beamed from a huge glass container to another. There were no apparent 
film cuts or other traces of editing, so we can’t really tell if it is fake or not.] 
Madeleine: Thank you. So, what are you going to do with your 
invention now? Such a discovery should be shared with the public, don ’t 
you think? 
Walter: That is definitely something I’m thinking about, yes. It is a huge 
responsibility though. I still need to figure out all the negative effects 
travelling could have. 
Madeleine: The only side effect I can think of is that cars would lose 
their main purpose. 
Walter: Yes, cars are one of the many means of transportation that 
would become obsolete over time, but not immediately. 
Madeleine: I’ll let you get back to it then, so you can finish your 
contraption within the next five years! I expect to be able to beam myself to 
any beach in the world after work every day. 
Walter: I’ll see what I can do. 
Madeleine: Thanks for the interview, and thanks for the tape. I’m 
excited. 
Walter: Thank you as well, I hope you’ll enjoy it. 
 
With those words I get my coat and the tape and leave. Can you 
imagine a world with beaming? You better start now, because it’s certainly 
becoming reality. 
 
 
 
12 
 
 
 
Walter shook his head at the newspaper, held up by his sweaty hands. A 
small section showed an interview with him, next to a series of images 
captured from the video tape. As he read through everything he had told 
the interviewer lady one week ago, all he could do was wonder about his 
own arrogance. He couldn’t remember being so full of himself while 
answering those questions. Sure, he had been awfully nervous, not only 
because it was the first interview of his life, but also because the woman’s 
choice of clothes hadn’t been of the shy and reserved kind. But, damn. It 
wouldn’t have hurt if he had just been a tiny bit more casual. 
He put the newspaper away, stood up and started circling through the 
living room, drawing an invisible eight on the floor. 
The newspaper wasn’t a very popular one, and most of the articles 
were probably made up. Walter didn’t expect any responses, at least no 
serious ones. The idea of giving away a prepared videotape instead of a 
live demonstration and the risk of failing machines had been a very smart 
move, Walter kept telling himself. But what if it had reduced his credibility 
to zero just because he hadn’t shown anything except what’s on the 
cassette? Most people would probably just read the interview, giggle and 
turn the page, hoping that in maybe forty or fifty years they’d see some 
mad scientist reveal a true beaming machine. 
There was that word again. Beaming. Ugh. 
Walter shivered. Oh, yes. He should probably expect a lot of attention 
from Star Trek fans now, since that reporter had actually decided to put 
that word in the headline: The Inventor of Beaming. 
Just when Walter was about to take the newspaper and throw it into the 
trash, the phone rang. 
Walter turned his left wrist. Eight o’clock sharp, the watch said. The 
rising sun outside seemed to nod in confirmation. 
He picked up and answered: “Hello?” 
“Good morning, Walter Trimond,” the male voice on the other end 
greeted. 

 
13 
“Good morning,” Walter replied. “Who am I speaking to?” 
“My name is Xave Stern. I would like to talk to you about the interview 
in the Future Today newspaper,” the voice calmly explained. 
“Go ahead,” Walter said, clearing his throat afterwards. 
“Is it real?” Xave asked, with a tone Walter couldn’t quite figure out. It 
was a bit spiteful, a bit defensive, and even somehow hopeful. 
“If by ‘it’ you mean the travelling machine I have invented, then yes, 
yes it is,” Walter proudly affirmed. There was that big-headed tone again. 
He could’ve slapped himself. 
“Good,” the voice said, obviously satisfied. “I’ll be there in two hours.” 
“What? You can’t just invite yourself, Mister Stern. Please remind 
yourself of your manners, which you were hopefully taught in your earlier 
years.” 
Well handled, Walter. 
“Oh, I can invite myself, Walter. We’re business partners now.” 
“Business partners?” 
“That’s right. Let’s talk face to face. Don’t let anybody else buy your 
invention in the meantime, got that?” 
Walter swallowed. And he thought he had been cocky. 
“Mister Stern,” Walter began. “At the moment I have no intention to 
sell my patent. Speaking of which, such a thing doesn’t even exist yet. I...” 
“Don’t worry, I will arrange all that.” 
A rustling sound. Probably paper, Walter thought. 
The voice continued. “You won’t have to deal with any of these things 
anymore. If your invention is real, that is. It is real, correct?” 
“As I already said, yes, it is real. As real as the voice you hear at the 
moment,” Walter said with a slight tone of anger. 
“Alright. See you later,” Xave said and hung up. 
Walter stared at the receiver. He had expected a few things, but not of 
that size and scale. This was going in a direction Walter wasn’t ready to 
take a turn into. In fact Walter hadn’t been ready to show his invention to 
the world at all, but his subconsciousness had decided against him and 
had told him to call the press. 
He put the receiver back and grabbed the newspaper again. The 
Inventor of Beaming. The Inventor of Travelling. The Inventor of... It didn ’t 
sound any better, no matter which words were inserted. He didn ’t like the 
word ‘inventor’, his ears screamed in agony at the sound of ‘beaming’. He 
had a profound aversion towards any title of that sort. It should’ve simply 
been Walter Trimond, not this of anything. Dammit. 
The phone rang again. “Hello?” 
 
14 
“Is this Walter Trimond?” a calm male voice asked. 
“Yes,” Walter said. 
“Good morning, I’m Stephen Mannor, CEO of Jupiter Logistics.” The 
voice took a small break, as if underlining the importance of its owner. 
“We heard about your invention and we would be interested in 
purchasing all rights to use your new technology exclusively. We thought 
about giving you two hundred thousand dollars, taxes included.” 
Walter’s eyes widened and he started to feel dizzy. The voice continued 
relentlessly, like an unstoppable train. 
“Nobody else will ever be able to use a technology similar to yours. We 
would name it whatever you prefer, and you shall be available to us in 
case our engineers have any troubles in the future. If you have received 
other offers already, name us their price and you can add their amount to 
our offered two hundred thousand dollars. From this day on you are a rich 
man, Walter Trimond. Congratulations.” 
Walter felt uneasy, weak and about to throw up. The voice seemed to 
strangle and slowly suffocate him. The cold and soulless tone sent a 
paralyzing wave through his body. 
“It’s not real,” Walter mumbled. 
“I’m sorry, what?” the CEO said. 
“The machine, it’s not real. The interview was a publicity stunt,” Walter 
said, trying to cover up the shaking voice. 
“Oh,” Stephen said. “I’m sure you...” 
Walter hung up. His breath went fast; his heart was pumping blood 
through his veins with a thousand beats per minute. What on earth had he 
gotten himself into? Two hundred thousand dollars. Walter definitely 
wasn’t poor, but the possibility that such an offer would be thrown at him 
for his simple - in comparison to other projects out there - invention was 
beyond even his understanding. It’s just a teleporting machine! Couldn’t 
be that ground-breaking now, could it? 
Walter received another three phone calls that tried to purchase his 
child, before he ripped the phone off the table, threw it through the house 
and sat down on the couch, where he remained seated, staring at the 
newspaper on the ground for the next two hours. 
 
15 
 
 
 
That was it, Xave kept telling himself while driving to the scientist’s 
address, which he had found in the phone book. From time to time he ’d 
throw a quick glance at the map on the passenger seat, hastily unfolded 
and held down by his right hand. 
He replayed a sentence from the interview in his head: “I expect to be 
able to beam myself to any beach in the world after work every day.”  
There it is. The need. The absolute need of every working human being 
on the planet. The ability to go anywhere instantly to relax after work. Not 
only that. It would open up so many new possibilities, completely 
overloading Xave’s mind. But he didn’t have the time to sort them out 
right now. His brain was concentrating on the road, and figuring out how 
to do business with a scientist. His father would have said: “Wear a suit, a 
red tie, shiny shoes and put gel in your hair. Appear as intelligent as 
possible, so that you’re regarded as part of the scientist’s circle.” 
Xave pulled on his tie’s knot to loosen it a bit and put his hand back on 
the map. Suit - check. Tie - check. Shiny shoes - well, no, but they were 
black. It would do. Gel - not necessary. He had washed his hair after the 
pigeon blood bath; it was still a bit wet. It would dry, but never mind.  
Another intersection and there should be the simple house Madelei ne 
mentioned in the interview. 
Boy, was he nervous. 
Don’t be nervous, Xave. Don’t be. There’s nothing to it. It’s just usual 
business. 
There it was. The small, but beautiful house, perfect for one family, 
with a proud oak tree guarding it and casting enough of a shadow to 
darken most of the house. A small crowd of reporters and business men 
and women had already gathered on the front lawn. Xave parked the car 
away from the house, in case the scientist took a coincidental look outside 
the window, see Xave’s old red car and get the wrong impression. 

 
16 
One last check in the driving mirror, a big grin to see if Xave’s teeth 
looked clean and healthy, a quick stroke through the hair, and one last self -
assuring nod. 
You can do this, Xave. 
He got out of the car, and forgot to lock it. While walking toward the 
house, he shrugged twice and moved his neck around quickly to make 
sure the collar sat perfectly centered. 
You’re a winner, Xave. This time you’re a winner. 
“I’m standing here in front of the scientist’s house,” a female reporter 
with a black dress blared into the microphone, showing her face to a huge 
camera, held by an even bigger man. “This is the place where a new age 
shall begin, if it is indeed true that Walter Trimond invented beaming.”  
The business people, surprisingly dressed almost exactly like Xave 
(even the women wore red ties), made it very hard for Xave to get to the 
door. 
“Who do you think you are? I got here before you,” a man with a 
flushed face hissed at Xave. 
“Yeah, but do you have an appointment?” Xave shouted back. 
“No, nobody does,” the man replied. “That guy doesn’t pick up his 
phone.” 
Well, I do, Xave thought. There was no way he would be let in by Walter 
with that crowd in front of his door, ready to tear everything apart. But 
there had to be a way. 
 
Walter was rooted in his chair, the same chair in the basement that had 
given his body comfort for the past twenty years. The distant noise of 
people shouting and talking nonsense terrified him. This wasn’t what he 
had hoped to achieve by letting the press know about his new technology. 
He regretted the moment he had dialled that cursed number; he called 
himself a fool over and over, hiding his face behind both his hands. 
A rat suddenly ran past him. The first being to ever have travelled and 
lived to tell about it. In rat language. 
“Oh, great, how did you get out of there,” Walter sighed. As he was 
about to stand up and catch the rat, he heard a knock coming from one of 
the cellar windows. 
Walter looked up at the sound’s origin. There was the face of a smiling 
man next to a sheet of paper pushed against the glass, showing a name in 
apparently hastily drawn black letters: Xave Stern. 
Walter hesitated, but then rose from his chair and opened the window.  
 
 
17 
Yes, Xave thought. One step closer to victory. 
“What do you want?” the scientist asked out of the basement. 
Xave was kneeling on the grass, hoping that it wouldn’t leave a huge 
mud stain on his expensive trousers. 
“Don’t you remember? I’m your new business partner,” Xave 
explained, grinning and wrapping himself in confidence, in hope it would 
convince the scientist. 
Xave saw Walter sighing and looking at the ground, thinking hard. “I ’ll 
meet you at the backdoor,” he finally said. 
“Great, thanks!” Xave stood up and walked to the back of the house. It 
was a miracle no reporter or other business person had been there yet.  
Walter opened the door and Xave entered, shaking hands with the 
scientist. 
“It’s an honor to meet you,” Xave beamed. 
“Likewise, I guess,” Walter said. 
A typical scientist, Xave thought. Full of himself, cocky, bigheaded, arrogant. 
He’ll be yours in no time, Xave. 
Walter locked the door. 
Small talk, yes or no, yes or no, Xave thought. Do scientists like small talk? 
No, I guess they don’t. 
“Let’s cut the small talk and get to the point,” Xave began, closely 
following the reactions on the scientist’s face. No frowning, no boredom. 
So far, so good. “I’m here to make you a rich man.” 
“Me, or rather yourself?” Walter asked. 
Whoops. 
“I’ll be honest with you, Walter. I can call you Walter, right?” 
“I guess,” Walter replied. 
Xave noticed a slight annoyance and corrected his course. “Walter,” he 
began. “I have a lot of experience. My father was a businessman, just like 
myself. His father was a carpenter, and his father’s father was a fisherman. 
You see, my family knows how to sell stuff.” 
“Stuff, uh-huh,” Walter mumbled. 
“Yes, for three generations we just sold stuff. Now’s my chance to sell 
something meaningful.” Xave balled up his right fist and held it in front of 
him. 
There it was. Walter’s forehead formed a huge canyon. Xave’s father 
had called it ‘The Frown’. A sign of complete failure. 
“I understand completely,” Walter said. “You see a huge opportunity to 
cash in on my work, so you can retire and live on a remote island for the 
rest of your life. Correct?” 
 
18 
Xave was desperate. “Yes, you got me.” 
The Frown disappeared. In its stead the left side of the scientist ’s mouth 
got raised. 
Alright, Xave. Complete honesty is your weapon of choice. 
Xave put his hands in his pockets. Casual. 
“Of course, I’m in for the money. I mean, ‘businessman’ is not just a 
decorative title. But most of the money would flow in your pockets. I ’d just 
be the middle man. I’d manage everything out there. And believe me, it 
gets really ugly on the battlefield. You’ll want to stay inside, working on 
your experiments. I can give you that freedom.” 
A short pause. Xave’s father had used pauses for two reasons: one, to 
take a deep breath and invite fresh oxygen into your brain; and two, to let 
the spoken words sink into your opponent’s mind. Xave took one hand out 
of the pocket to support his words with fitting gestures, and started 
walking around a bit, trying to appear visionary, confident. “We need to 
start small. First of all, we make sure your technology works fine. Then we 
need to polish it up for mass-appeal. Nobody wants to -” Beam? Teleport? 
What was the word again? Quick, Xave, quick. Ah, yes. “- travel around using 
machines that look like they were made back in the sixties.” 
Walter shrugged. “Why not? I love the sixties.” 
“Yes, there are a lot of people who still do, including myself.” A quick 
healthy lie. “But to attract the maximum amount of people, we need to be 
up to date on current styles.” Xave turned around on his heels. “And 
then...” He clapped. “We’re going to connect the first two cities.” 
Walter nodded repeatedly, staring on the ground, probably imagining 
the future Xave had laid out before him. 
He’s considering it, Xave thought. Yes! 
But with a sudden wave of the hand Walter dismissed the presented 
future. 
“Well, I think I should listen to other offers before making a decision,” 
the scientist concluded. 
Damn it. Xave went through his options. What to do? Ah, yes. He 
quickly walked to the window next to the front door. 
“Are you sure you would trust them more than me?” Xave asked and 
gestured Walter to look outside. 
The scientist came closer and gazed at the business people standing 
outside, yelling at each other. A separate crowd of Star Trek fans had 
arrived, wearing “Beam me up, Scotty!” t-shirts, standing behind the 
female reporter and waving into the camera. 
 
19 
“You should also consider the fact that other scientists will try to invent 
their own travelling machines as quickly as possible, throwing you off the 
throne sooner or later - if you don’t act now,” Xave said, thinking whether 
that had inflicted too much pressure. 
Still looking at the chaos outside, Walter sighed. 
Xave reached out. The final nudge. Come on, Walter. 
The scientist snapped out of it, turned and shook Xave’s hand. “Deal.” 
 
20 
 
 
 
Walter felt uneasy. He had probably made the biggest decision of his life a 
few hours ago. From now on, there would be no turning back. The train 
was rolling, the tracks couldn’t be rearranged. 
Sitting in his second favorite chair in the living room, he was listening 
to the crowd outside, which was creating a noise that tried to draw him 
into a state of trance, like a siren. 
The spell got broken as Xave barged in through the front door, using 
Walter’s key. 
“I’m back,” Xave announced. 
“So I noticed,” Walter said, lingering in his chair like a lazy old cat. 
“Any news about the health of my lawn?” 
“Well, I called the police. Two of those guys are standing in front of 
your house, making sure nobody steps on your property anymore.”  
Walter’s mood brightened up a bit. 
“I’ve got my war chest,” Xave presented the black suitcase, “containing 
all the necessary documents.” 
Bureaucracy. Only religion was worse to a scientist. 
“I can see from the look on your face that you don’t like paperwork,” 
Xave said. 
“Most definitely not,” Walter replied. “But I guess it is a necessity of 
our society. Each paper represents one of the many patches that hold 
humanity together.” 
Xave let out a quick laugh. “Good one. But anyway. Let’s do this later. 
First, you’ll have to show me your machine and tell me how it works, so I 
understand what I’m going to sell.” 
“Sounds reasonable,” Walter mumbled and forced himself out of the 
chair. “Follow me, please.” 
This was the moment he had been afraid of for a long time. Nobody 
other than himself had ever seen the travelling machine in reality. With his 
luck, it would stop functioning right at the start of the presentation.  

 
21 
“I’m sure it won’t work now,” Walter said to make an eventual 
upcoming disappointment less painful for the man in the suit. 
Now that Walter thought about it, Xave’s tie had a terrible color. But he 
kept his mouth shut about it. 
“Yes, don’t worry, I’m sure it will work eventually,” Xave assured, 
following Walter down the stairs into the basement. 
Walter turned on the light and both men stood still for a second, as if 
paying respect to the room with a moment of silence. The size of the 
machinery suggested it would make quite a sound when turned on and 
even the walls seemed to remember and reflect that noise. 
“So, this is where the magic happens,” Xave said, astonished. 
“Not magic, Xave, science,” Walter corrected the businessman with a 
raised finger. “I haven’t caught the rat yet, so be careful and watch your 
step.” 
“Rat?” 
“Yes, the rat I used for the first successful travelling test,” Walter 
added. “It somehow broke out of its cage today.” 
Walter knew that he should prepare himself for baseless criticism. The 
mental wall was up and Walter hoped it was thick enough not to let 
anything through and break his spirit. He went to the main machinery and 
turned it on. The familiar basic humming started. Soon all other 
instruments would follow the lead. 
“And these are the... travelling chambers?” Xave asked, pointing at the 
two glass booths with his hands. 
“Yes, you could say so,” Walter said over his left shoulder while 
monitoring the displays. 
“I guess this thing uses quite an amount of energy, right?” 
“Correct.” 
“Hm,” Xave said. 
“I will try to reduce the needed energy, of course. This is only a 
prototype, as you’re surely aware of,” Walter said. 
“Yes, yes.” 
Walter heard how Xave impatiently tapped on the ground with one 
foot. 
“So, how does this thing work?” Xave asked. 
The scientist thought about giving Xave an explanation he surely 
wouldn’t understand only to intimidate him, but then decided against it. 
While fiddling around with the controls and looking at everything twice to 
make sure it would work, he began describing the process. 
 
22 
“First of all,” he cleared his throat, “the subject that shall be sent to the 
target destination steps into the first - to use your words - travelling 
chamber.” 
“Uh-huh,” Xave said. 
“I have designed this machine to be activated by a single button, once 
everything has been set. As the button is pressed, a perfect copy of the 
subject’s organic data - specifically the position and momentum of all 
atoms - is created and saved, while the subject itself is being split into all 
its atoms by a bundled beam of light. Keep in mind that the number of 
atoms in an average human body is a seven followed by twenty -seven 
zeroes.” 
“Wow.” 
“That’s what the glass sphere is for, by the way. It helps bundling the 
light, coming from outside of it.” 
“I see.” 
“The thick black cable connecting the two travelling chambers is used 
for sending the atoms across, so that the subject can be assembled again. 
You have to understand that it would be impossible to create matter out of 
nothing.” 
“Makes sense, yeah.” Xave folded his arms. 
“It might sound plausible to prepare a stash of common atoms like 
oxygen, carbon and hydrogen, but it gets borderline impossible for atoms 
like uranium and beryllium.” 
“Uh-huh.” 
“Using the saved data the subject is recreated with its own atoms, using 
another beam, controlling the air in the target glass sphere with heat, to 
arrange the atoms in the right position.” 
“Okay.” 
Walter turned around. “Bear in mind that I’m basically circumventing 
the Heisenberg principle here, but I guess you’ve never heard of that. 
Anyway, that’s the gist of it.” 
“So, as far as I understand, the subject is dead for a few seconds?” Xave 
asked with raised eyebrows. 
Walter knew this would come. The whole lecture on ethics. 
“If you call a creature’s collection of atoms ‘alive’, then by that 
definition, it would still remain in the same state during the journey.”  
“You’re saying it can see itself getting sucked through the cable?” 
“No, I think it just suddenly wakes up in the target chamber. Just like a 
narcosis. The cable is cold to slow down any sort of decay.” Walter leaned 
on his machine. 
 
23 
“Slow down? But then how would you make long distance travelling 
possible?” 
“That is what I need to figure out.” 
“I see,” Xave said, looking at the ground. 
“I want to use a few more rats for testing, then I need an ape,” Walter 
explained. “I was hoping maybe you can help me in that matter.”  
“Well, how did you get the rats? Can’t you get an ape the same way?” 
“I’m afraid not, the pet shop in this area doesn’t sell any apes. I’m not 
even sure if it’s legal.” 
“Okay, I will take care of that,” Xave said. 
Walter thanked him. Maybe the deal hadn’t been such a bad idea at all. 
He started walking around in the basement, looking for the rat. 
“What are you doing?” Xave wanted to know, still filled with 
impatience. 
“I need my test subject,” Walter answered. 
“Don’t you have other rats?” 
“No, that was my last one,” Walter said and stopped looking. “It’s 
gone. I’m sorry, I can’t demonstrate my machine without a test subject. 
Well, I could use your wristwatch or other items, but I guess that’s not 
what you’re here for, is it?” 
“You’re right,” Xave said. “I’ll get your ape then.” 
“What? Now?” Walter blinked. 
“Yes. The sooner the better.” 
“But I can’t assure the ape’s safety,” Walter exclaimed. 
“I’m sure you’ve had enough of testing with rats. We’re in business 
now, and we’re going to be serious about it,” Xave said and left the 
basement. 
Walter scratched his chin. The humming sound of his machine seemed 
to crave a new test subject and support Xave’s actions. Like a chanting 
group of mayans preparing their human sacrifice. 
He shivered. 
 
24 
 
 
 
How to get an ape? Xave was driving through town in large circles, 
thinking of a possible solution. Normally in situations like these he’d 
simply visit the library and look for a book on how to deal with angry 
customers, or what to invest money in. There wasn’t a book on how to get 
an ape. A zoo displays apes. But Xave didn’t feel like a thief. Not that sort 
of thief stealing animals, anyway. Weren’t apes sometimes used in circus 
attractions? Maybe he could buy one. Circus people seemed to be 
“underground” enough for it to work. Besides, how did they get their apes 
in the first place? Xave thought of flying to Africa. Now that was 
ridiculous. Xave in Africa... What would his father do? His father…  
Xave shook his head. His father simply wouldn’t deal with apes. He’d 
get a human. Humans can be bribed into doing anything. And it’s 
probably cheaper than purchasing an ape, or flying to Africa. Xave knew 
exactly where he’d get a human willing to be a laboratory rat. For free.  
Thanks, father. I can always count on you. 
Xave turned right, heading back to Walter’s house, which was still 
patrolled by two policemen. A bunch of Star Trek fans were still gathered 
on the sidewalk in front of the scientist’s property, keeping their slogans 
high up on self-made wooden signs. 
Again, Xave parked his car a few meters away, and walked up to the 
Star Trek people. He counted seven of them; two women, five men. They 
all were dressed regularly, only one of the men wore plastic Spock ears.  
“Hey there,” Xave greeted them casually, receiving seven different 
versions of “Hey” in response. “How’s it going?” 
“We’re doing okay,” one of the women said. 
“Yeah, just fine,” a man said. 
“Everything is under control,” Spock reported. 
“That’s good to hear,” Xave continued. “You know, today is a really 
wonderful day. Don’t you agree?” 
“Yes, absolutely,” the same woman from before replied. 
“Indeed,” Spock said with a dry voice and a raised eyebrow. 

 
25 
“But you know what, for one of you this will be the best day ever,” 
Xave said with his salesman voice. “Because we have decided to let one of 
you get an inside look at the biggest invention of the century.” 
The little crowd jumped in excitement (all except Spock, naturally), the 
women screamed. Then everybody suggested he or she would be best 
suited. 
And while the others simply exclaimed their desires, Spock held a 
speech about his importance and overall qualification, but of course, Xave 
couldn’t really hear him. 
“Okay, calm down everyone,” Xave pleaded, holding up both hands. 
The crowd was silent. Fourteen eyes eagerly and impatiently stared at 
what Xave’s mouth had to announce. “I have here a black marker.” He 
took it out of his right pocket. “Every one of you will write a number 
between one and fifty on the palm of your hands. When we’re all done, I 
will call out a number, and the one closest to my number will come with 
me. Understood?” 
The crowd nodded with glee. All except Spock. He simply approved 
with his presence. Xave thought he was a damn good impersonator.  
“Alright,” Xave said, handing the black marker to one of the women. 
She turned away from the rest, looked into the sky, probably hoping to 
receive the number that would win, and then she carefully wrote the 
number down on the inside of her left hand, closing it and giving the 
marker to the next in the crowd. 
The policemen questioningly stared at Xave. He waved back, notifyin g 
them of the situation’s harmless intentions. 
Every one of the seven people had a closed left hand, and the marker 
went back to Xave. 
“Good,” Xave said, taking a deep breath. “My number is - one! Now, 
please show me your hands.” 
Spock had 50, the two women had 13 and 41, the other four men 
showed a 30, another 30, a 12 and a 37. One of the men was the winner; he 
exclaimed his joy with a loud “Yes”. Spock remained stiff and silent. The 
other fans moaned in disappointment. 
“Alright, come here. What’s your name?” Xave asked, holding his right 
arm around the short man of the guessed age of twenty. 
“Jeremy,” the man answered. 
Xave turned to the rest of the crowd, thanked them for their 
participation and wished them a good day. With Jeremy close behind him, 
Xave went back into the house. 
 
26 
“Walter, I’m back,” Xave announced, closing and locking the door after 
Jeremy. “Walter?” No response from the scientist. 
Xave turned to the winner. “The scientist is probably in the basement.” 
He smiled and noticed Jeremy was shivering with anxiety. “Follow me.” 
They both went down the wooden stairs and caught Walter working on 
one of the travelling chambers, with an extra magnifying pair of glasses on 
his nose. 
“Hello, Walter,” Xave said. 
“Ah, Xave, did you get me the ape already?” Walter asked, then looked 
up and took off his glasses. “Oh, I didn’t expect another visitor.” 
Xave laughed. “Well, he certainly isn’t an ape, right, Jeremy?” 
Jeremy just stood in awe and examined the basement’s machinery with 
an open mouth. 
“Walter, this is Jeremy, one of your greatest fans.” 
“I-I’m very honored to meet you,” Jeremy stuttered, holding out his 
hand like a robot. 
With a troubled face Walter shook the man’s hand. “What is this all 
about, Xave?” 
“Don’t you remember your request to find one person to be the first 
human traveller?” Xave explained. 
“What?” Jeremy jumped so high Xave was afraid he would hit his head 
on the ceiling. “This is too much, I-I’m just a humble guy, it’s truly not my 
destiny to be a part of something this big,” Jeremy said, eyes wide open, 
smiling from ear to ear. 
“What? I have-” Walter began. 
Xave knew Walter wouldn’t like this. “Walter, hold on a minute, I’ll be 
right back,” Xave said, ran up the stairs into the living room, and opened 
his suitcase lying on the old sofa. His fingers flipped through various 
documents. 
Where is it, where is it, come on, Xave. 
“Organisation is everything, son,” the voice of his father echoed from 
side to side in Xave’s head. “Organisation is everything, son. Organisation 
is-” 
“Got it!” Xave left out a sigh of relief, and quickly made his way back 
into the basement. 
“Before you can take part in this historic moment, you need to sign this 
paper, no strings attached,” Xave said, smiling persuasively, handing the 
document and a pen to Jeremy. The man quickly took both items without 
the slightest hesitation, clicked the pen and signed the paper. He returned 
the writing tool and the signed sheet to Xave. 
 
27 
“What’s it say?” Jeremy asked. 
Xave had trouble hiding his grin. Oh boy, you sure have a lot to learn in 
life. “It just states that we’re not responsible for anything happening to 
you.” 
“Oh,” Jeremy said and shrugged. 
 
Walter looked at the two men at the entrance to his basement and tried 
to cope with the situation. Going from a rat directly to a human in a chain 
of experiments resembled amateur work, mildly put. The life of the person 
named Jeremy was now in his hands. He had been able to handle the 
responsibility of the deaths of a dozen rats, but ... How could he ever get 
over killing a human? Walter couldn’t believe Xave seemed to take this all 
ever so lightly, just like a... a game. 
Life isn’t a game, Walter thought. Even, or rather especially as a scientist, 
life has a certain amount of value. Life is precious. And deep inside he kept 
apologizing to every animal and insect he had ever killed in his life, even 
though it had always been important for some kind of scientific progress. 
Why couldn’t Xave have simply brought an ape? No, it had to be a human. 
And knowing Xave a little already, Jeremy surely had been brought in 
under false assumptions. 
“So, Walter, are you ready to send the first human travelling?” Xave 
asked, still smiling. 
“I can’t believe I’m going to be beamed,” Jeremy mumbled, staring at 
the glass booths. 
Beaming. Walter stepped closer to Jeremy. “Beaming? My dear friend, 
beaming has nothing to do with my invention. Not in the least. Beaming is 
merely a trivial idea of some guy, trying to write a science fiction novel. 
Beaming is not a reality, while this,” he walked to the controls an d hit it 
twice, “this is solid, this is real. Based on an idea, yes, but you can see it, 
you can feel it, you can step into it.” 
Jeremy blinked. Xave smiled. 
“So, now that that’s out of the way, I guess Jeremy can ‘step into it’, 
right?” the salesman asked. 
Walter breathed deeply, calmed down and finally gave in. He looked 
down on his machinery and asked about its feelings, if it was ready to take 
a rather serious test. The machine looked confident. Or at least Walter 
imagined and hoped it would be. Walter nodded. “So be it,” he said, and 
opened the glass chamber designed to resemble the start of the travel.  
Jeremy hesitated. “Am I going to be alright?” 
Xave patted Jeremy’s back. “Of course!” 
 
28 
“Jeremy, I won’t force you to travel, but you should be aware of the 
significance of your role. A simple step into this glass booth paves the way 
for millions of other people,” Walter said in his serious voice. “I won ’t let 
you die.” 
Jeremy seemed satisfied, and slowly put his body inside the sphere.  
Walter trembled even more than Jeremy. This can’t turn out well, Walter 
thought to himself. This just has to fail. 
The scientist firmly closed the glass sphere, quickly turned to the 
controls, pushing several buttons in a strict and relevant order. The 
machine started to sing. The drums and trumpets marched along a few 
moments later. 
Through the sides of his eyes, Walter noticed Jeremy looking nervously 
from Xave to Walter. Jeremy’s mouth moved, but the sphere cut off his 
voice. Xave made a gesture to Jeremy that it was impossible for anybody 
outside the sphere to hear him. Thus, Jeremy gave up, closing his eyes.  
Walter pushed another array of buttons, looked at Jeremy, and quickly 
hit the blue button. 
Light filled the room, a loud ear-penetrating sound rode through the 
air, the floor vibrating with excitement. Indifferent, Walter stood by his 
controls and stared at the feedback of his instruments, while chaos 
unfolded around him. 
Everything working as usual, so far. 
The light disappeared, along with the noise. The room was now filled 
with the smell of burnt flesh. 
Walter waited a moment, expecting the worst, and slowly looked to the 
left where Jeremy had just been standing in the glass sphere. It was empty. 
No trace left of him. No loose body parts, no blood. He quickly forced 
himself to look to the right. 
A morphed creature, barely resembling a human being - that was what 
Walter had anticipated. But instead, he looked into the healthy eyes of a 
complete and intact Jeremy. 
With large steps Walter went to the destination booth, opened it and 
shook Jeremy’s hand. 
“Congratulations,” Walter said. 
Jeremy stumbled out of the sphere, fell on his knees and vomited on the 
ground. 
 
29 
 
 
 
Again, Walter rested in his second favorite chair in the living room, his 
arms stretched out. Xave was outside, talking to policemen about the noise 
of the travelling machine. Next to Walter was a young man lying on the 
couch in front of the TV. Jeremy had passed out after his stomach had 
decided to empty itself. The salesman and the scientist had carried him 
upstairs. Walter still felt the pain in his back from the weight of the 
unconscious body. 
This hadn’t been a good day up until then. Why had Xave insisted on 
trying it with a human prior to proper testing with an ape? 
He sighed and looked at Jeremy, still expecting the whole body to just 
fall apart, like the first few rats did. He remembered the unbearable high 
pitched shrieks of the little animals; whole body parts had started falling 
off of their trembling bodies, they had coughed up blood and shaken 
violently, until finally their hearts had given up. 
The news flash on the TV interrupted Walter’s gory thoughts. A 
woman with an emotionless face told a story about a scientist in Taresville 
claiming to have invented instant travelling. According to a recent 
interview the scientist’s only proof of said invention was a video, recorded 
in the man’s basement. 
Walter sat upright. He was on the news. 
Xave returned. “Anything wrong?” he said. 
Walter filtered out those words and kept staring at the woman still 
talking about a certain invention of him. 
“Today, Scientist Dr. Halver responded with a public statement that the 
video must have been faked,” the woman read off the teleprompter. A 
video clip was shown of Dr. Halver giving a press conference. 

 
30 
“After careful observation of the footage of Mr. Trimond’s teleportation 
device,” Dr. Halver said, “I am now certain that what we’re seeing is 
actually one of the oldest camera tricks since the invention of filming. 
Please watch the short video with me. Here you can see the scientist 
talking about the importance of his project, and how it works in theory - 
which by the way is absolute nonsense - and now he walks to his 
machinery, pressing buttons, obviously in random order. Now he puts a 
rat in a huge glass container, goes back to the console, and here - right 
there, a bright light, that’s exactly when the camera was stopped to put the 
rat out of the container. The light goes away, the rat is gone. The scientist 
now approaches the camera, turning it to the other glass container, 
showing us a happy little rat. And that’s it.” 
Walter shook his head. “What is wrong with people nowadays?”  
Xave shrugged. “Nothing to worry about. Envy is just one of the many 
things you’ll have to face on your way up. Apparently that man has 
nothing better to do than putting himself above others who have clearly 
beaten him. Poor old frustrated bastard.” 
Walter looked at Xave with raised eyebrows. 
“We have better things to do,” Xave continued, “than watching him act 
superior in front of the world.” He turned off the TV. “How’s Jeremy?” 
“Still sleeping, I suppose,” Walter answered, taking a quick glance at 
the Star Trek fan. 
Xave went to Jeremy and checked if he was breathing. 
“Seems fine, no scars, no blood,” Xave noted. “Then again, I’m a man of 
economics, not a man of Trekkies.” He walked away from Jeremy. “Can 
you continue improving your machinery while I watch over our little 
patient here?” 
“I guess,” Walter mumbled through his dry lips. Just then he felt weak, 
a bit out of place; everything around him went too fast, dragging him 
along with it on the ground. He slowly rose from his chair and walked 
down the stairs, taking each step like an old man with too much time, 
carrying his whole past on his shoulders. 
Improving my little machinery, Walter thought. Like it was some kind of 
toy. A childish tower construction, only built to be destroyed afterwards, 
watching earth’s gravity do its magic. He should be happy now. A human 
just travelled from one spot to another using his invention. What kept him 
from celebrating his success? 
The path ahead, he answered himself. There was darkness in front of 
him. He didn’t know where his next step would take him, yet he was 
forced to move forward. 
 
31 
Walter arrived at his mechanical child and put his hands on it, trying to 
sense if it felt alright. There was still a slight stench of burnt flesh in the air, 
but Walter was afraid of opening the window, fearing for the safety of his 
child. 
He rolled up his sleeves and said: “Let’s do this.” 
 
Xave slapped Jeremy a second time. “Wake up, kid!” 
No response. The rising and sinking chest was the only sign of life.  
If Jeremy wouldn’t wake up soon he’d have to call a doctor, only 
resulting in more negative rumors about Walter’s invention. With the 
situation already bad enough, Xave was glad that Walter had gone to the 
press immediately. Now the government or any shady organisations 
couldn’t try to steal the technology and keep it locked away for whatever 
reasons. The public knew about it now, even if it was just one of those 
headlines people would read in magazines while waiting for the dentist to 
call their names. 
Jeremy breathed in deeply and exhaled; Xave saw his patient opening 
his eyes. 
“How are you?” Xave inquired. 
“Where am I?” Jeremy asked the obligatory question. 
“Well, you had the privilege of being the first traveller, then you spread 
your last meal on the ground - causing the scientist some additional work - 
and passed out. We had to carry you up here and you’ve been out for a 
few hours.” Xave explained. 
Jeremy moaned and touched his head. “I’ve got a terrible headache.” 
“I suppose that’s because you were split into your atoms and put 
together afterwards. I guess it comes naturally.” 
“I ... I saw a bright light.” Jeremy began slowly, still holding his head, 
keeping his eyes closed. “Then absolute darkness. I felt pain, but it was 
distant, it hurt, but the pain didn’t fully materialize.” 
“Uh-huh,” Xave said. “Listen, you can’t talk to anybody about this until 
I allow you to do so, alright? This must be handled with care.” 
Jeremy weakly nodded twice. 
“Do I have your word?” Xave pushed. 
“Yes,” Jeremy assured. 
“Thanks, kid,” Xave said, patting Jeremy’s left shoulder. 
 
32 
 
 
 
“Today a young man named Jeremy called the press to tell the world 
that he was the first human traveller,” the news lady on the screen read. 
“Yesterday’s report of Dr. Halver’s opinion on what seems to be one of the 
most important inventions of the human race falls in direct contradiction 
with Jeremy’s experience.” 
Xave grinned at the TV, which showed Jeremy surrounded by a large 
group of reporters, covering his face in multi-colored microphones in 
various shapes and sizes. The camera shook wildly. 
“It was awesome, absolutely amazing. I’m sure y’all can’t wait to try it 
too. I heard it’s not gonna be long before everybody can use it,” Jeremy 
said loudly, breathing quickly, with a broad smile and bright eyes.  
“That kid has got some guts,” Xave mumbled to himself. He never 
expected Jeremy to break yesterday’s promise so fast. 
Time to check on the scientist, Xave thought. 
His black shoes led him down the stairs into the basement, filled with 
humming sounds of various frequencies. Walter was kneeling behind the 
console. 
“Ah, Xave,” Walter greeted the salesman and stood up, moving his 
glasses to the top of his head. “How are you doing?” 
“I’m pretty fine, actually,” Xave said. “The kid from yesterday spilt 
everything. Now Dr. Valve or whatever is out of the ring, I guess.” He 
scratched the back of his head and frowned. 
“People rather believe a twenty-year-old’s babble than a man with a 
title wearing a suit?” Walter took a few steps towards Xave. 
“It’s a TV world, Walt, that kid probably seems a lot more passionate to 
the audience than that old frustrated bastard,” Xave said. “Youth in itself is 
a big plus.” 
Walter shrugged. 
“Any improvements I should know of?” Xave asked. 

 
33 
The scientist eagerly rubbed his hands. “Oh, yes. Long story short, I 
found a way to cut down the required power for one travel. It ’s still far 
from efficient, but I’m getting there.” He yawned. “After one or two hours 
of sleep, I assume.” 
“What about that light? Do you think it can be...” Xave hesitated, 
drawing circles with his right hand. “You know, less painful to the eye?”  
“Ah, well,” Walter began. “I never thought this would become an issue, 
but I will try to dim the blinding results of the splitting procedure. But to 
tell you the truth, the bright light would spare the audience from seeing 
the traveller’s insides at that exact moment.” 
Xave nodded. “Okay,” he said. “When do you think it will be ready for 
the public? You know, with less energy consumption, increased range, and 
lower chance of becoming blind. Because I’m sure after that little 
information leak this morning people are going to be really up for a little 
travelling themselves, and we should use that opportunity.” 
“In all honesty?” Walter asked. 
“Sure, hit me.” 
“Probably a year.” 
“One year?” Xave exclaimed. “Why exactly did you go to the press 
with your invention when it wouldn’t be ready to use for another 
eternity?” 
“I just wanted the world to know that I did it first, that is all. I haven’t 
thought of it becoming big like this in such a short period of time.” Walter 
replied. 
“I need it in one month, Walter,” Xave said with a serious face. Time to 
get a little more pressure on the man, he thought. 
“What exactly do you need in one month? A killing machine?”  
Uh-oh, the scientist’s angry with me now. 
“I need one of those machines that sent the first human from that dusty 
corner to the other one on the opposite side right in this freaking room. I 
need it to be power efficient, I want it to look sleek, attractive, and I want it 
to send people from Taresville to Monoura. And I want people not losing 
their eyesight when cheering on travellers. If anyone can do this, it ’s you, 
Walt.” Xave pointed at the scientist. 
Xave felt the harsh pile of words he had just released looming over 
Walter’s head. The scientist shook his head and looked at his feet. 
“Well, what do I have to lose? Only one life left in that body of mine 
anyway,” he said and patted his chest. 
“Good man,” Xave said. “I’ll be back later.” 
 
34 
Outside of the house, Xave fought his way through a throng of 
reporters, who were shooting a variety of questions at him. 
“No comment,” Xave said without even listening to the words 
swarming him. 
Additional policemen were overlooking the scene from the corners of 
the front lawn. Xave sure was glad they were still sticking around. 
Otherwise the situation probably would’ve been ugly. 
After dodging a group of Trekkies storming the scene, Xave finally 
arrived at his car. 
Today was another milestone, he thought. He threw himself into his 
vehicle and looked into the driving mirror to check his tie, hair, eyebrows 
and nose hair. 
A winner. That’s what you are, Xave. 
The car drove away with shrieking tires. 
Alright. You got all the facts in your head, Xave. You will see the man, do a 
quick analysis, and adjust your behavior accordingly. You won’t sell anything to 
somebody who doesn’t want your product. Thus your product must wake a sudden 
desire in your target’s head. You know how to push the right buttons. You’ve done 
it before. Sure, it’s a lot bigger this time around, but everybody’s just a child 
anyway. Look at that man, look past the suit he’ll probably be wearing, see the 
young boy with eager eyes, playful, childish. And well, you still have plan B, 
right? 
Xave’s eyes met themselves in the rear-view mirror. 
Right? 
His left hand slowly touched the little bulge on his chest, barely visible 
through his suit. 
Xave’s eyes looked at the traffic again. 
 
35 
 
 
 
Lost deep in his thoughts, subconsciously counting the white stripes in 
front of his car on the highway, he was driving towards the village of 
Monoura, the stage of his plan. He did have a plan, at least he thought so. 
Having a plan always makes one appear more confident, even i f it’s sewn 
together on the go. 
A loud shot ripped his mind back into reality. Xave’s head darted back 
and forth, left and right, trying to find the cause for that sudden 
interruption. Only then he realized that his car wasn’t driving as smoothly 
as before, rather as if it were bouncing over several small rubber balls. 
“A tire,” he mumbled to himself. “Goddamn it.” Hearing his own voice 
made him feel a bit calmer. 
His car was already at a very low speed, as he saw a guy standing and 
waving next to the outmost lane. He had intended to stop there anyway to 
check the damage and parked a few meters after the person he had just 
seen. 
He got out, minding the fast moving traffic right next to him, and 
checked the tires. He cursed again as he saw a saggy, black mass right 
where a round shape used to be. He turned away, only to face it again, 
kicking it once. The car creaked. 
“Hello there,” a voice greeted Xave. 
He checked its source and saw a man in blue suspenders, the same man 
who had waved at him before. Right before Xave could reply, the man 
knelt down in front of the tire. 
“Do you have a spare one in the trunk? I’m a mechanic, I could fix it for 
you if you can’t do it yourself,” the man offered. 
“Sure, that would be great,” Xave accepted. His spirits lifted a bit . 
Maybe he would still be able to make the deal today. 
They shook hands. “Xave,” the salesman said. 
“Rick,” the mechanic replied and began his work by opening the trunk 
and pulling out the replacement tire. 

 
36 
“I’m a bit amazed by how quick you are to help me out,” Xave said 
after a while of awkward silence. He took a glance at Rick’s vehicle, a small 
van, which had seen better days. “You seem to be having a problem of 
your own.” 
Rick cleared his throat and looked up, while removing the old tire from 
Xave’s car, which, in its lifted pose, looked like a dog, marking a tree. “My 
problem seems to have caused yours.” He had to squint at Xave, for the 
sun blinded him. 
“How so?” Xave asked. 
A few more jabs and turns and Xave’s car was ready to roll again. Rick 
stood up, wiping his hands on his jeans, which were already filled with 
black spots. 
“I tried to warn you by waving, but I guess I was too far away for you 
to notice.” Rick wiped his forehead. “My car lost a part of its exhaust pipe 
and you seem to have run right over it. At least that seemed to have sent it 
flying off the road, so nobody else is gonna have a blown tire.” 
Xave frowned, but said nothing. Rick held on to the broken tire under 
his arm. “I’m gonna take care of that for you,” he explained. 
“Thanks,” Xave said shortly. 
“If you ever need any repairs or anything, I’ll give you a good price.” 
Rick handed Xave a card. “Good day.” 
The mechanic went back to his van, stuck the tire in the back and 
disappeared below to check on his problem. 
“Good day,” Xave shouted. He looked at the card in his right hand. 
Rick Lorand. Might come in handy, he thought. 
He shook his head, inhaling deeply, as if trying to wake up from a 
dream, put the card into one of his suit’s pockets and drove on. 
 
37 
 
 
 
In the afternoon Xave arrived at Monoura, a town so small it was barely 
justified being called something larger than a human settlement. He 
probably had a single shot at it, but he could always try other locations. 
Still, it’d be better if it worked the first time. 
And it will work the first time, he reassured himself, while getting out of 
the car. 
A tall white house towered in front of him, surrounded by a luxurious 
garden, guarded by two men in suits. Surely they had noticed Xave 
already. 
The salesman approached the house and was stopped by a raised hand 
of the guard on the right. Supported by the neck of a bull, he slowly 
moved his head to stare Xave to death. “Name?” 
“Xave Stern,” Xave said, offering his hand. The gesture was ignored 
and the hand floated awkwardly between them, before it retreated. 
The guard folded his arms in front of his chest. “You got no 
appointment, do you?” the guard thundered. 
“If you’re required to come up with appointments, please do, I don’t 
have all day.” Xave risked a lot by being so straightforward, but he forced 
himself to feel confident, believing that it would show and intimidate. Or 
at least make a minor impression. 
“What is your intent?” the guard asked, his deep voice vibrating in 
Xave’s ears. 
The other guard shifted his weight and continued to stare into the 
distance, making a tough face. 
“I have an offer the mayor won’t be able to refuse,” Xave explained, as 
sinister as he could. “This is a historical moment he wouldn’t want to pass 
up.” 
“Do your rugs smell of autumn leaves?” the guard asked, probably 
intended as sarcasm, but he didn’t look like he was joking. 

 
38 
“I’m not selling rugs, I’m offering a bright future for a bargain price,” 
Xave replied, removing every trace of a smile from his expression to keep 
up with the staring contest. 
Both guards looked at each other, then the talkative one faced Xave 
again. “The mayor is not in.” 
“I shall wait while you give him a call,” Xave said and tried to move 
past the gorillas. 
A wall out of flesh and bones blocked his way. The guards were calm as 
a lake, their cold eyes killing everything in sight. 
Xave gave up. “I’ll wait in the car then.” 
The mayor arrived half an hour later in a black limousine. Xave jumped 
out of his vehicle and shot words at the small, round man with the hat.  
“Mayor of Monoura, I presume?” Xave began. 
“Yes,” the mayor said, the guards already behind him. 
“Mr. Mayor, this man wanted to speak to you in an urgent matter, he 
states that he is offering a bright future for a bargain price,” one of the 
guards said. 
The mayor scoffed and looked at Xave. Seeing no trace of jest in the 
salesman’s figure, the round face lost its demeaning expression and turned 
into a visage of curiosity. 
“Very well, come on in.” The mayor went into the house, taking each of 
the three steps slowly with only his left foot reaching for the next. Xave 
followed inside, trying not to mind the overpowering presence of the two 
muscle packs. 
“Take a seat,” the politician offered once they were inside his office, 
without signalling any chair or other possible sitting location. 
Xave decided to stand and begin right away, before the mayor could sit 
down. The sun was already setting, as he noticed through the one wide 
window, which was framed by dark brown draperies. 
“What would you say if I offered you a way to transport people 
instantly from here to Taresville?” Xave shot right for the bullseye. 
Startled, the mayor turned around, looking at Xave as if somebody had 
pinched his butt. His forehead featured a meaty frown with three sweaty 
lanes. 
“What?” the mayor said with a high voice. 
“Imagine,” Xave started, walking to his target person and holding an 
arm around his shoulder. The confused mayor played along, the two 
guards tensed up. 
 
39 
“Imagine a device the size of that cupboard over there.” Xave pointed a 
thumb at said furniture in the corner. “Picture yourself stepping into it, 
and a mere second later, stepping out of another cupboard in, say,” Xave 
paused, took a quick look around and saw photographs of various holiday 
locations. “Venezia,” he finished. 
Xave noticed that he had the mayor’s attention. 
Now to reel him in. 
“Imagine the people of your town being the first to experience instant 
travelling, look at how their lives would improve.” Xave’s free hand 
painted an imaginary picture into the air, followed by the mayor ’s 
intrigued gaze. “How does that sound?” 
The mayor blinked, coughed briefly and said: “It sure sounds nice, but 
if such a device existed, why wouldn’t there be more about it in the news?” 
“Nobody believes it except a small handful of people.” Xave looked at 
the mayor as if to say, people like you. 
“Who says I believe it?” the mayor rebelled, marched to his throne-like 
chair and sank into it, almost crushing it. “You’re telling me beaming 
exists? Here? Today? And nobody knows about it because nobody believes 
it?” 
I didn’t say beaming, Xave thought. “Exactly.” 
The mayor laughed heartily. “You’ve been watching too much 
television.” He waved at him in a dismissing manner. 
Xave remained silent, but kept a knowing smirk on his mouth.  
The round man’s laugh ebbed away into a giggle, then into a drawn out 
humming sound. 
He must be realizing that I’m not joking around, Xave noted, keeping his 
calm posture. 
“Show me,” the mayor gnarled, annoyed at the fact that he was both in 
disbelief and dying of curiosity. He rose from his chair like an avalanche 
from a mountain, and led Xave outside. 
 
40 
 
 
 
Walter turned on the light for the basement. 
Nightfall again, he thought. And still so much to do. 
He dragged his feet to a large table where he kept a part of his 
schematics and plans, and leaned against it with both hands flat on the 
surface. 
Sighing deeply, he stood upright again, squeezing the nasal bone 
behind his glasses, closing his eyes for a short while. 
There was a commotion outside. 
Walter looked at the basement windows, straightened the spectacles, 
went upstairs and opened the front door. 
A limousine parked rudely on his lawn, driving through a throng of 
cheering people, who got held back by brave uniformed men. The motor 
stopped. 
Walter’s heart leaped. What now? 
The driver quickly exited the noble vehicle to assist his passengers. 
The black automobile spilled out four people: two examples of 
successful muscle growth therapy; a short, well fed chap with a hat, and - 
“Xave!” Walter shouted to drown out the noise of the chattering people.  
“What is the meaning of this? Haven’t we had enough publicity?” 
A man wearing an antennae cap escaped the clutches of the police and 
ran up to the scientist, showering him with questions and eager spit.  
Walter shielded himself from the wordy and watery attack using both 
of his hands, until one of the officers stepped between them and dragged 
the naughty sheep back to its herd. 
Xave went back inside the house, gesturing the other three figures and 
Walter to follow him. Walter closed the door behind them and took a deep, 
exhausted breath. 
“Walter, this is the mayor of Monoura, Petar Toringen, and his two 
guards,” Xave introduced. “Mr. Toringen - Walter Trimond, the scientist I 
told you about.” 
They all shook hands one after another. 

 
41 
“It is an honor to have you in my house,” Walter said humbly. “May I 
offer you something to drink? I fear I only have tap water, but-” 
“Just show me the beaming device,” the mayor demanded bluntly, 
hiding his hands behind his back. 
“Very well.” Walter, startled by the direct inquiry, turned to the 
staircase down the basement. “Don’t hit your heads on the way down,” he 
muttered without looking. 
“This is it?” Petar said in disbelief as he laid eyes on the two glass 
booths. He chuckled heavily; one of the guards snorted, and shook his 
head. 
Walter said nothing. He looked at Xave and wondered what was going 
on in his head. 
Apparently, Xave knew what was coming. 
“You,” Petar said to the giggling bear in a suit. “Try it.” 
“Me?” the guard said. 
“Sure, nothing’s gonna happen,” the mayor assured him. “That or 
you’re the first person to be beamed.” 
Walter bit his lip. Neither would he be the first, nor would he be 
beamed. That last word made him grimace in disgust. 
“What’s wrong?” the mayor addressed Walter. 
The scientist put on a smiling face and offered the guinea bull to step 
inside one of the cells. “Careful,” the scientist warned him and moved 
some black wires out of the way. 
As Walter had closed the glass booth, the mayor grabbed Xave by his 
collar and said: “He better not die.” 
The guard in the beaming cell looked terrified all of a sudden. 
“Not to worry,” Xave stuttered, freeing himself from the grasp. He 
straightened his collar, and nodded at Walter. 
Elaborately, the scientist slid his glasses in his coat’s chest pocket and 
put on a pair of safety goggles. He played the array of buttons like a 
pianist, strict in technique, beautiful in its purpose. The machinery awoke 
to his commands, marching along, rising in speed and tone. A short pause, 
to let the build-up sink in - then Walter firmly nudged the blue button. 
Blazing white light filled the room. Both the mayor and the other guard 
exclaimed in shock; Xave coolly shielded his eyes with one hand. 
The brightness level returned to normal and everyone except Xave and 
Walter rubbed their eyes and tried to adjust their vision to see the results. 
The mayor clapped once and pressed his hands together. “My God,” he 
blurted out. 
 
42 
Walter opened the glass booth, which had been empty a moment ago, 
and the short distance traveller took a wobbly step forward, forcing 
himself not to succumb to his obvious bad feelings. Another step, though, 
and the bodyguard threw up on the ground. Annoyed, the scientist 
removed his goggles, shook his head and put his hands on his hips.  
The mayor turned to Xave and almost stumbled upon his own words. 
“I have to- When can we- How much do you-” Once again, just to make 
sure, he took a good gander at his guard, making sure he was in one piece. 
Then, like shooting an arrow, he stuck out his hand with wide open eyes 
towards the salesman. 
Xave shook it. 
 
43 
 
 
 
The next morning, Walter helped the postman wrestle away the drowsy, 
yet passionate people who apparently had decided to set up camp. The 
three policemen, who were assisting Walter’s attempt of accepting his 
mail, seemed to be new faces; probably a different shift. 
In a matter of seconds, Walter, now holding quite a few letters and 
postcards, went back inside and closed the door, leaving the others to their 
own fate. 
He let himself fall on his thinking chair and went through the mail. 
Appreciation, congratulations, admiration, death threats, love letters, 
small monetary and some questionable donations, a photography of a thin 
man in his forties holding the interview with Walter next to his grinning 
face, and - 
Wait, death threats? 
Humbug. He balled up the mysterious paper and threw it in a corner. 
Ah, there was something of interest. A postcard from his parents.  
 
My dear Walter, 
having a good time here in Tahiti, 
not sure where we’ll go next, but we’ll 
know by the time you read this! 
Hope you are all right! 
Love and hugs, 
Mom and Dad 
 
Walter recognized his mother’s handwriting. She always took care of 
crafting these cards. 
Tahiti. 

 
44 
He stood up, mindlessly letting the rest of the letters and cards drop to 
the floor like dead leaves, and walked around the chair to a wall that had 
been constructed in the center of the room as a sort of separation. On the 
side facing the window there were maybe forty postcards pinned to a cork 
surface board. Walter searched for a good spot, nabbed a red pin and 
placed the newly acquired card. For a moment he stared at the photo of 
Tahiti. Beach, sea, people in swimwear, palm trees, blue sky. 
Soon, he contemplated, he would be able to simply visit his parents. No 
matter where they were. In a matter of seconds. 
He smiled and tapped the postcard twice, as if telling his parents to 
wait a minute, he would be right there. Inhaling and exhaling deeply, he 
drew his thoughts back to where he needed them and went down into the 
basement. 
 
45 
 
 
 
Both windows were still broken, but Xave had glued a broad towel in front 
of them with brown tape. It would do for now, since it was Summer. He ’d 
find an actual solution at another time. 
At least the remains of the bird, the feathers, the blood and the glass 
shards were gone. Xave had stayed up late the night before to clean up the 
mess. 
That was reason number two why he had overslept. 
The actual reason: He was simply exhausted. Not from scrubbing the 
floor, but from this whole endeavour of trying to bring Walter’s invention 
to the masses. 
He had done well so far, he thought, getting the mayor of Monoura to 
accept an agreement before even trying to reach the mayoress of Taresville, 
a town with a much stronger population than the mere five thousand 
people of Monoura. 
Xave had explained to his new partner that Taresville’s leading 
politicians hadn’t been informed about the plan yet. Petar, Monoura’s 
mayor, had said that he would take care of that. 
Xave sipped his cold coffee, made a disgusted face and poured the rest 
of the cup’s contents down the drain. 
He stuck three fingers into the left pocket of his shirt, where the bulge 
had given away something hidden, and produced a gold watch. It wasn ’t 
ticking. 
A slight squeeze and the lid sprung to the side, revealing the actual 
clock, its hands pointing at Roman numbers. Three minutes past eight. 
Inside the lid a small round picture showed a couple, the man wearing an 
expensive tuxedo, the woman a long and wide dress, her décolleté 
generous, yet elegant, surrounded by a thin line of animal fur. A discreet 
flower arrangement held up her hair into a neat knot. 
For a minute Xave examined the object in his hand in silence.  
“Plan B,” he whispered to himself. 
“Always think of a backup”, his father would say. 

 
46 
Fortunately, now was not the time. He closed the watch carefully, 
drawing out the motion so that there were two audible clicks instead of 
one, and put it back into his pocket, where it formed the familiar bulge 
again; a constant reminder. 
The phone rang. 
Xave cleared his throat and picked up. “This is Xave Stern. State your 
business.” 
“Xave,” Walter spoke through the speaker with a muffled tone. “I need 
help.” 
“What happened?” Xave felt anxiety rising. 
“I can’t do the changes alone in time, I need a second hand, someone 
who’s good with the handiwork.” 
“Ah,” Xave exhaled and calmed down. There was no danger. “Another 
scientist then?” 
“No, scientists are weak,” Walter generalized. “I need someone who 
can lift heavy materials, move them around, install cables, replace parts, 
you know?” 
Xave felt there was something Walter was trying to convey, so he 
waited. 
“Someone to do the dirty work,” Walter finally revealed. 
“I was just about to look for a larger place, too,” Xave said. “An 
abandoned storeroom, or a factory or something. Your basement is already 
too small with more than one person standing in it.” 
“Sounds good.” 
“But, I’ll have to ask the mayor for some money or find another sponsor 
first.” Xave scratched his unshaven chin. 
“No need, I’ll take care of the money issue,” the distant voice of the 
scientist assured. 
Xave had actually hoped for that. He was never really sure where all 
the stuff in the basement came from, or why Walter was living alone in a 
house suited for a family with two, maybe three children. Now the 
scientist had confirmed Xave’s suspicions about Walter’s wealthy family. 
“Good,” Xave said. “I’ll get back to you when I have found you an 
assistant and a new place.” 
“Thanks.” 
Xave was about to say goodbye, when Walter said: “I got a death threat 
letter.” 
So, there was danger! Xave inhaled, straightened his back and rested his 
free hand on his hip. “What did you do with it?” 
 
47 
“I threw it away. But maybe I should pay more attention to it,” Walter 
thought aloud. 
“I’ll look into it when I meet you again. Thanks for telling me. Stay 
away from the windows.” 
“Stay away from the windows?” Walter asked in a high tone. “It’s not 
like I’m getting targeted by snipers now, am I?” 
“Just to be on the safe side, we’ll assume the worst. For now, just 
concentrate on the improvements, please. I’ll be there soon.” Xave hung 
up, rushed to the door and left his apartment. 
The rooms lay silent for a while, dust sailed through shy sunrays and 
the towel in front of the windows waved gently. 
One minute passed, then Xave stormed back into his apartment, 
grabbed his gun off the kitchen table and was on his way again, slamming 
the door shut behind him with a loud bang and locking it twice. 
Always have a backup plan, he reminded himself. 
 
48 
 
 
 
It was a small workshop that employed Rick. Only two cars could be 
worked on at the same time, the others had to be parked outside, awaiting 
their turn. Business was good, given the small size of the company. There 
were only three employees and the owner, who didn’t actually touch any 
of the cars, but rather stayed behind the scenes and was rarely seen. 
Every day was usually a rough day. They all did good work, fast, 
efficient, and with nothing to complain about, and customers kept 
recommending them and spreading the word. 
Rick was about to replace the windshield wipers on a red Volksw agen, 
when he saw a rundown red Opel Omega A approach the workshop and 
stop right in front of him. He froze in his motion, holding a loose damaged 
wiper in his right hand and the two replacements in his other one, while 
staring at the guest. 
A man in a suit exited the car. “Rick!” he greeted from afar with a 
raised hand. When he reached Rick, the raised hand was offered to shake 
his. 
Rick sprang back to life, tucked the two new wipers under his arm and 
grabbed the salesman’s hand. “You,” he said. “From the highway 
yesterday, right? Xave, if I remember correctly.” 
“A fine memory,” Xave smiled, showing his teeth. 
Rick hadn’t expected a cashing in of that generous offer of a reduced 
price so soon, not when he was swamped with work already. 
He realized his hands were dirty and apologized to Xave. 
“Ah, never mind that,” Xave said. 
“What can I do you for?” Rick asked, wiped his hand on his jeans, put 
the wipers on the hood of the beetle, and nodded in the direction of the 
Opel. “Anything that needs fixing?” 
“No, but I do need your help,” Xave answered mysteriously. 
“If it’s not your car, I’m afraid I can’t offer any other skills,” Rick said, 
wiping his nose with the back of his hand, sniffing loudly. 

 
49 
“My business partner, a scientist by the name of Walter Trimond, is 
working on a very important machine and needs a hand that is used to 
working with complicated devices,” Xave elaborated. “And I immediately 
thought of you.” 
Rick looked perplexed. “What sort of machine?” 
“You may have heard about it. It sends people to other locations in a 
matter of mere seconds.” 
Rick had a hard time judging the man’s character, and thought it best to 
decline and not risk anything. 
“That sounds wonderful, but as you can see, I already have a job and 
I’m quite good at it.” Rick turned his body slightly away from Xave, as if 
trying to end the conversation. 
Xave took one step closer, making Rick feel awkward. What could he 
do to shake that guy off? 
“Listen,” Xave began. “What are you earning right now?” 
Rick hesitated. He saw a bulge through the salesman’s chest pocket, 
wondering what it was. “One and a half grand, plus tips,” he said, not 
mentioning his work on the side. 
 “We’ll pay you three times that,” Xave offered. 
Rick frowned. 
“This is a one-time chance, friend,” the man continued. “You helped 
me, so I’ll try to help you. You’re married with children, right?” 
Rick looked at his wedding ring and nodded. 
“Good, here’s what you’re going to do. Talk to your wife and kids-” 
“Only one son,” Rick interfered. 
“Talk to your wife and son. I’ll be back tomorrow and ask you again, 
but only once. Sound fair?” 
There seemed to be no harm in that, Rick thought. At least the man 
would go away. For now. 
“Sure, I’ll do that.” 
A triumphant and satisfied expression formed on Xave’s face. “Good 
man. See you tomorrow!” The salesman turned around, waved goodbye 
without looking back, sat down in his car and left. 
“Who was that?” Jamey asked, appearing from behind the beetle. Rick’s 
co-worker, a short guy with horn-rimmed glasses, had apparently 
eavesdropped on the discussion. 
“Not sure,” Rick said, returning attention to the wipers. He still had to 
process everything. 
“Well, do you take the job?” Jamey pushed his glasses up with his 
index finger and seemed excited. 
 
50 
“Gonna have to ask the wife, see what she thinks about it,” he 
mumbled over his shoulder, trying to concentrate on attaching the new 
wipers. 
“Well,” Jamey said, shrugged and returned to the car he was working 
on. “He wouldn’t have to ask me twice.” 
Rick looked at him thoughtfully. 
 
51 
 
 
 
Kristella’s gaze wandered off, away from her desk with piles of delivery 
notes on top, over to the window to her right, offering a view across the 
city. 
She sighed and continued touch-typing away on the keyboard with 
impressive speed, the broad ring on her right hand rhythmically clicking 
against the keys. 
Her task was to enter all physical shipment data of the past three years 
into this new thing called “computer”, which was basically a gray box with 
a slightly larger gray monitor on top of it. The flickering screen usually 
gave her a headache by the end of the day, and it refused to show any 
colors other than black, white and more depressing shades of gray – when 
even her TV at home could do better. 
Being a young apprentice, she didn’t have much of a reason to 
complain. She got a job in an office, exactly what she had wanted, but after 
three months of staring into a fuzzy box she felt kind of stupid for not 
pursuing her parents’ idea of a good job - waitress, for example. At least 
something where she’d be dealing with people and not be stowed away 
like a dusty carton with old memories. 
Yes, she was working alone in her tiny room and her sole responsibility 
was to work through the towers of paper that decorated and surrounded 
her desk, some stacks leaning dangerously against a wall, on the brink of 
collapsing. 
Typing came naturally to her, that’s why she got the job. She was fast. 
But wouldn’t she rather be amongst people all day, with the chance of 
meeting, you know, that special someone? 
All the dating options in there were a small statue of a silver unicorn on 
her desk - a long-time lucky charm of hers - and moths. Not quite the 
bright future she had hoped to look forward to. 
She took a break and stood up, stretching. It was hot outside and even 
more so inside. The air felt heavy on the lungs, opening the window didn’t 
help much, but she did so anyway. 

 
52 
Summer definitely wasn’t her favourite season. 
Walking around the desk, she caught sight of the small heap of mail she 
had been given at the entrance of the skyscraper earlier this morning. Her 
boss had given her the extra duty of handling all incoming letters. What 
she found were mostly invoices she had to prepare for payment, orders she 
had to forward, various ads for office utilities, business clothes, and the 
latest craze in electronic devices - and finally, this day’s newspaper. 
It wasn’t a well-respected paper, but her boss had a subscription for it 
anyway. 
She sat down with it at her table, fell back in her chair, and started 
skimming through the headlines, enjoying the break. 
Buried in excessively attention grabbing articles there was a story that 
snatched her interest. She slowly leaned forward and read the details. 
Apparently, a scientist seemed to have found a way to teleport people, 
transporting them from one spot to another almost instantly. The paper 
made him look like a fool and the tone of the chosen words were rather 
degrading. Clearly, this article was written to entertain the reader by 
underlining the stupidity of others. 
Kristella dismissed it and turned a few pages. 
Then a thought struck her mind and she looked at the city’s skyline 
again. The sun was resting high above, heating up the buildings as if 
trying to burn them to ashes. 
What if it were true? 
She returned to the page about the scientist’s invention and read the 
column word by word this time. 
“A man by the name Walter Trimond, residing in Taresville, has 
allegedly found what so many professional, highly skilled and trained 
scientists have failed to discover: A contraption that is able to beam people 
around. Sure, and while he’s having a streak of genius, why not find a cure 
for cancer, or a way to travel at light speed, or hell, why not go all out and 
come forward with a time machine? Beaming is so last year. Besides, 
Walter gets angry when you call it ‘beaming’, according to an interview we 
did in a previous issue. He prefers the term ‘travelling’. Maybe that’s 
because he actually didn’t find a way to beam people. Maybe he simply 
knocks them out, drags them to their destination and splashes water into 
their faces to wake them up. If you decide to ‘beam’ around on your next 
holiday trip using Walter’s device, be aware of side effects like losing your 
wallet or having a new haircut on the other end. Walter’s surely working 
on a fix, right?” 
Taresville, Kristella thought. He basically lives right around the corner! 
 
53 
She could phone the paper staff, persuasively ask for the address and 
be there in half an hour after work and see for herself. 
She shrugged and a grin appeared on her face. 
Why not? 
 
54 
 
 
 
In the evening, Rick returned to his apartment on the second floor of a five 
story high residential building and was greeted by the smell of vegetable 
soup. 
“Dad?” his son Bernand asked from the living room. 
“Yes, it’s me,” Rick answered and closed the door. 
He left his brown jacket on a hook and his shoes in a small cupboard in 
the small entrance area and went around the corner to greet his child, 
sitting on the couch in front of the TV, playing on the video game system 
he had been given last Christmas; something called a “Nintendo”, Rick 
vaguely recalled. 
“How are you, kid?” Rick asked, standing next to him, watching the 
tiny hands fiddle with the rectangular controller. 
“I can’t see!” he responded, craning his neck to the left, almost falling to 
the side. 
His wife Roanne appeared next to Rick and kissed him on his bearded 
cheek. “You look tired,” she noted warmly. 
“I am. Lots of new clients today, they said that a bunch of other 
workshops were closed today for vacation. What a coincidence, right?” 
Rick told her. 
Roanne smiled, but her expression seemed strained. 
“You’re having a hard time too, haven’t you?” Rick noticed. 
“Just feeling a bit dizzy, that’s all,” Roanne said. “Let’s eat.” 
A few moments later they were all sitting in the kitchen at the dining 
table, slurping the hearty soup. 
“A man in a suit came up to me today,” Rick began, digging his spoon 
deep under the vegetables and noodles. “It was the same guy I helped out 
on the highway yesterday.” 
“What did he want from you?” Roanne asked without losing focus on 
her meal. 
“He offered me a job with three times the pay.” 

 
55 
Roanne let her spoon hit the plate and stared at him, swallowing a 
chewed carrot. “What kind of job? Do you have to kill somebody?” 
“No,” Rick chuckled, trying to lessen the tension. “It’s a science project. 
I think it’s supposed to beam people around, you know, like in that science 
fiction series. Star Hike?” 
“Cool!” Bernand yelled out with a sparkle in his eyes, almost spilling 
his soup. 
“Shh,” Roanne said with a finger held in front of her lips. “The 
neighbors are asleep!” 
“That’s so awesome, Dad,” Bernand whispered with glee. 
Rick blinked. “You think?” 
Roanne shook her head. “It sounds pretty dangerous, if you ask me.”  
“You’re right,” Rick said. He hadn’t made up his mind yet, so he was 
pretty quick to change sides. 
“But he’s going to be famous! My friends are gonna be so jealous!” 
Bernand almost burst with excitement. 
A grin forced itself on Rick’s mouth. “It does pay a lot,” he argued. 
Roanne shrugged. “I guess so. We could get a bigger apartment. 
Bernand’s not getting smaller.” 
“I could try it for a week and get another mechanic job if it doesn’t 
work out,” Rick offered. 
Everyone had paused eating by now. Roanne leaned forward and 
rested her elbows on the table. “But what if something happens?”  
“To be honest, my current job is probably a lot more dangerous,” Rick 
said, fuelled by his kid’s enchanted face. “Cars could crush me every day, 
there are lots of sharp tools lying around, I lift dozens of heavy objects, 
every spark could send me flying.” 
Roanne thought about it for a few seconds, inhaling deeply. “One 
week,” she said in a worried voice. “If there’s even one tiny scratch on you, 
you’ll find something else.” 
“Promise.” 
“Yes!” Bernand yelled, throwing both arms in the air as if he had won 
the world. 
His mother reprimanded him again, and they finished their lukewarm 
supper. 
 
56 
 
 
 
Kristella had called five different people of the paper to reach one man 
without moral conscience and get the address. 
“Everything for a beautiful voice like yours,” he had flirted. 
She had wanted to slap that guy through the receiver, but that didn’t 
matter anymore. 
She was sitting in a bus in the direction of her destination, and exited 
after ten or fifteen minutes. Looking around, she oriented herself and 
headed straight into the correct street. She was counting down the 
numbers on the passing houses, when she noticed a small crowd in the 
distance. 
This must be it, she thought, and walked faster. 
In the dim light of the setting sun, there were two police cars parked 
right in front of the fence, a silver van of a radio station on the opposite 
side, and people in alien costumes, holding signs such as “Beam me up, 
Walter!” and “We believe!” 
Policemen were restricting the area, probably making sure nobody 
would approach the house without permission. Kristella only spotted 
three, so there had to be others patrolling around the building. 
Disappointed, she realized she probably wouldn’t see the scientist. On 
the other hand, what would she say to him? It was bound to be awkward 
anyhow. Testing the new way to travel sounded promising in her mind, 
though. 
She fought her way through the aliens and cyborgs and tipped a cop on 
his shoulder. 
“Please don’t touch me, I represent the law,” the uniformed man said 
sarcastically. He lowered his head and looked her up and down. “But 
there’s probably a paragraph with you as an exception.” 
Kristella groaned inside. Well, maybe there was a way in after all.  
“I really have to see Walter Trimond, it’s very urgent,” Kristella 
pleaded, playing with her hair. 

 
57 
“I’m sorry, I can’t let anyone through, not even a beauty like you,” the 
cop said like a sleazy snail. 
Beauty always comes with the added flavour of having to deal with jerks like 
you, she wanted to reply. 
Instead she pouted. “Oh, I see.” 
“If she gets to see him, we’re going in too,” said a green man next to 
Kristella. 
“Yeah, me too,” a blocky silver robot said, his voice sounding male and 
damp. 
“See? No exceptions,” the policeman insisted. 
A loud diesel engine noise seemed to come closer and a moment later, 
Kristella saw a truck turning into the street. It drove past the house, halted 
and went into reverse with flashing white lights and a high, regular 
beeping sound. 
To everyone’s surprise, the driver didn’t seem to care much for the 
bystanders, as the truck forced its way backwards towards the scientist’s 
house. Chaos broke out, some wanted to evade to the right, others to the 
left, bumping into each other, causing more panic. 
Seeing no other way out, Kristella snuck past the dumbstruck 
policeman, who was trying to deal with the situation by calling out to the 
extra-terrestrials to remain calm and to the driver to look out. 
Eventually, a path cleared and the truck slowly but surely pushed its 
rear tires through the lawn and stopped a meter before the entry door. 
Kristella quickly hid behind a rain barrel, crossing her fingers in hope 
of not getting discovered. She imagined an old man being the judge at 
court and declaring: “Well, darling, seems like you’ve been trespassing, 
we’ll have to hang you by your sweet little neck. Unless you marry me, of 
course.” 
She shuddered. 
Four policemen closed off the entrance to the area behind the truck, and 
some costumed fans reluctantly returned back to their idle occupation.  
The door on the driver’s side of the truck opened, and after someone 
had jumped out it was closed again. Kristella could only see the right side 
of the truck, which had a giant advertisement of a furniture store printed 
on it. 
Then somebody opened the house’s door. 
A high male voice called out a name and said: “You are truly a 
blessing.” 
“Enough with the flattery, Walter,” another voice said, probably that of 
the driver. “Let’s pack up.” 
 
58 
Someone opened the back of the truck and Kristella heard a dozen 
more footsteps. 
“I’ve brought help,” the second voice said. “They’re from the furniture 
store on the other end of the city. I hired these guys along with the truck I 
rented from the same company.” 
Kristella remembered last year when her company had to move to the 
new building and saw the vivid images of a similar truck in her mind. 
She heard everyone going in, then the higher voice – Walter? - asked: 
“What about the other helping hand I asked you for?” 
The door closed behind them and Kristella only heard an 
indistinguishable mumble in reply. 
Her heart drummed an aggressive beat and she quickly went through 
her options. 
First: Wait until everyone is gone and then try to simply walk away.  
Second: Knock on the door and offer help. 
Third... 
She sprang to her feet, dashed across the grass and jumped into the 
open truck. The storage space appeared a lot roomier than from outside. It 
measured approximately three meters in height and four or five meters in 
length. And to her relief, it wasn’t completely empty. There were three 
tables piled on top of each other, fixated to the wall with a strong rope, and 
two cupboards standing next to each other at the end of the trailer, secured 
the same way as the tables. 
Acting without thinking, she slipped under the desks and crouched 
down as close to the wall as she could. 
She giggled as she realized her stupidity; she was acting like a child! 
But - oh, how exciting it was! It reeked of adventure, not of dusty office 
interiors. 
The door to the house opened and heavy footsteps approached the 
truck. 
“Careful with that!” she heard Walter say. 
Two other male voices moaned and groaned under pressure.  
Something heavy got loaded into the trailer and Kristella rocked along.  
Fifteen minutes later, she was surrounded by gadgets and laboratory 
tools. Nobody had seen her, even though a pair of legs had come 
dangerously close. 
The helping men jumped into the trailer, probably trying to find 
enough room for each other, and the door was closed shut. 
“Let us through now, please,” the driver yelled, probably to warn the 
police. 
 
59 
Two doors opened and closed, the motor started and the truck drove 
away. 
 
60 
 
 
 
The warehouse, located at the eastern end of Taresville, lay spookily in the 
moonlight. There was a rusty sign up front, hanging at a funny angle, 
reading “Familia” in black letters against a supposedly yellow 
background. Crickets happily sang their songs, cherishing the fact that the 
noise of the city was too distant to disturb their rituals. 
Xave’s truck thundered through the silent night, waking up even the 
deafest living thing. 
“We’re here,” he said to Walter, who was sitting on the passenger seat, 
grabbing onto the handle above the door on his side. 
“You drive like the devil,” Walter said, jumping out of the truck. “I 
hope my equipment isn’t damaged.” 
Xave smirked and got out as well. 
They both opened one side of the trailer’s door and the four workers 
started unloading Walter’s stuff. 
Xave and Walter went to the entrance of the warehouse. 
“Here is your key,” Xave said and handed Walter a small, shimmering 
item. “I have the second one. There is no third yet, but I’ll let copies be 
made whenever we need more.” 
“How did you get this so quickly? And how much did all this cost?” 
Walter gestured at the building, the truck and the workers. 
“You said money isn’t a problem, and we were running out of time, 
consider this until you see the actual figures.” Xave unlocked the large gate 
and pushed the left half of it inward. 
As he went in, he produced and turned on a flashlight. Walter 
followed. 
“Oh, and I got a tip for this unused warehouse from the mayor’s office. 
I had to talk to them about the connection to Monoura anyway.” Xave 
paused, touched the wall next to the entrance in search for the light switch, 
found it, and hit the knob with his fist. 

 
61 
A dozen fluorescent light tubes sprang to life, illuminating a vast empty 
space, the lights reflected by the floor. Apart from the windows close to the 
ceiling, there was nothing else. 
Walter was taken aback for a moment. 
Xave clicked off his flashlight. “The company who previously owned 
this place went bankrupt last month and nobody had bothered to buy it 
yet, so they were eager to let it go,” Xave finished explaining. 
Walter had stopped listening and was already running to the center of 
the hall, which took him a good five or six seconds, then he stretched out 
his arms and turned around, facing Xave with a broad smile. “This is 
fantastic!” 
His content expression quickly faded as he saw blue and red lights 
through the front windows of the building. 
Xave went outside and saw five cops standing next to two police cars, 
one of them talking to a female news reporter, the other one prohibiting 
anyone else to approach the warehouse. Six fans had apparently followed 
the truck as well and were in the process of setting up camp anew.  
“Just as I thought,” Xave mumbled to himself. 
The workers began carrying various inventions, gadgets, tools and 
furnishings into the building, and Walter took it into his own hands to 
guide them. 
One of the policemen tapped Xave on his shoulder. “Can I have a word 
with you?” 
“About what?” Xave asked, facing the uniformed man. 
“We can’t protect you forever, you should hire security guards,” the 
officer explained. 
Xave nodded. “Definitely, but can you guys just stay for one more 
night? The mayor would be glad.” 
Noticing that this was becoming bigger than estimated, the cop 
refrained from trying to get home earlier. “Will do,” he said, straightened 
his hat and returned to warding off the mob. 
Good boy, Xave thought. 
As he was about to join Walter, he noticed a woman climbing out of the 
trailer. Xave realized that all workers were inside right now and he leapt 
forward, grabbing her by the arm. 
“Who are you? What were you doing in there?” he asked firmly. 
The woman turned around - and Xave was stunned. He let go of her 
immediately. 
 
62 
She laughed unabashed. “I did the most hilarious thing,” she said. “I 
went along for the ride as a stowaway.” She put both of her hands in front 
of her mouth, as if she had formed the naughtiest word in the universe.  
Xave chuckled. His mind ran through various reasons for her being 
here, but every thought ended in the fact that the woman in front of him 
looked stunning. 
“I hope you’re not a reporter, I’d hate to throw you out,” Xave said. 
“No need to worry,” Kristella reassured him. “I’m a fan, I come in 
peace.” 
“How did you get in here?” the officer from before barked at the 
woman. 
Xave reacted quickly. “It’s fine, she’s with me.” 
The cop formed a sour face, as if to say, “Whatever” and walked away. 
“My name is Xave. And you are?” Xave inquired gently. 
“Kristella.” 
They shook hands. 
The workers returned with bare hands, climbed into the trailer and 
heaved a cupboard together. 
“I’ll introduce you to Walter,” Xave said and led the way. Kristella 
followed him with a flushed face. 
“Walter!” Xave yelled into the warehouse as he and Kristella entered. 
His voice echoed off the walls. 
The scientist was inspecting one of the glass booths, probably trying to 
find any damages. The other booth was still in the truck. 
He rose to his feet when he saw Xave and Kristella approaching him.  
“Walter, this is Kristella, your biggest fan,” Xave said jokingly, waving 
at Kristella with his hand. “Kristella, meet Walter, the mad scientist 
everyone’s talking about.” 
They greeted each other awkwardly, not shaking hands. 
“She was actually hiding in the truck all the way here,” Xave continued. 
Walter frowned in disbelief. “Did you steal anything?” he asked, eyeing 
Kristella suspiciously. 
“Of course not,” Kristella defended herself. “Where would I even put 
that thing?” She threw a glance at the glass booth. 
“You could have stolen plans or memorized blueprints.” Walter folded 
his arms. 
“I don’t have any pockets, and I’m not a genius like you,” Kristella fired 
back. 
“Come on, Walter, give her a break,” Xave intervened. 
 
63 
Walter fumed, but soon the anger lifted from his eyes and he 
apologized. “I’m sorry, it’s been quite an achievement to get this far in my 
young life and I won’t let anyone spoil that for me.” 
That’s about the worst apology ever, Xave thought, and buried his face in 
his right hand. 
The four workers brought in a cumbersome black cupboard, banging 
the door with one of its corners. 
“Right over there, please!” Walter gestured in a direction. “Thank you!”  
“So, is it true then?” Kristella asked, trying to ignore Walter’s 
accusations. “Can you beam people?” 
Walter hesitated and bit his lip. Xave had to force himself to look away 
and not laugh. 
“Yes,” the scientist said. 
“Can I try it?” 
“Oh, you know, why not? We’re in the middle of setting everything up 
right now, but if you stick around, I’m sure I’ll have it up and running 
again in, ah, five or six hours.” A dark cloud formed above Walter’s head. 
“You’re grumpy like an old man, you know that?” Kristella said. 
“Okay, that’s enough,” Xave once again jumped between the two. 
“Kristella,” he said as sweet as he could. “Why don’t you give me your 
number and I’ll call you when you can try it out?” 
“You know what, this was a bad idea after all,” she said and turned 
around to leave. 
Xave darted a sharp look at Walter. He shrugged and continued 
examining his creation. 
Just as Kristella reached the gate, Xave held her back. “I see that you 
long for fresh experiences in your life, this is a great opportunity, and I’d 
love to have you on board for this journey,” Xave blabbered in his best 
business talk. 
Kristella seemed to consider simply walking off for a moment, then she 
said: “Kristella Attenburg. Look me up in the phone book.” 
She smiled, walked outside and began talking to a policeman, probably 
asking him to take her home. 
Xave tore off his gaze from her attractive body, evaded the marching 
workers who were on their way to the truck once more, and went back to 
Walter, who was kneeling next to the booth. 
“Anything broken?” he asked the scientist. 
“No signs of any loose parts, at least,” Walter replied. “I’ll have to open 
it up later and I expect to find a mess of torn wires and scattered resistors, 
thanks to your careful driving style.” 
 
64 
Xave raised an eyebrow. “Walter, my friend, look at me.” 
Furious, the scientist turned around and their eyes met. 
After a few seconds, Xave won the staring contest. Walter sighed. “I’m 
sorry. This is just going a bit too fast for me.” 
“Well, you started it,” Xave said. 
“So I did.” Walter looked down on the ground at the reflection of the 
lights. “Thanks for helping me out.” 
“No worries.” Xave had personal gain in mind by aiding Walter on his 
way to fame and success, but he kind of started to like the wiz not only 
because of his ability to print money in the near future. His father 
would’ve warned him not to get attached to business partners though, and 
he pushed those feelings aside for the moment. 
Kristella appeared in the gate. “Guys? I need a ride home. The cops are 
too busy and I don’t have enough money for a taxi.” 
Walter seemed indifferent, but Xave looked at her with surprise. He 
figured out a plan. “Once the truck is fully unloaded I’ll have to drive the 
workers home and return the truck anyway, so you can come with me,” 
Xave offered. 
“That would be great,” Kristella said loudly. “I’ll wait outside.” 
Two workers carried the second booth inside, almost hitting Kristella 
over her head with it. 
“Careful with that!” Walter yelled. 
 
65 
 
 
 
“How can I trust you, Xave?” Walter asked the salesman. 
They were sitting at a table in a separate area of the warehouse, 
surrounded by drawing boards. 
Walter knew he had to tread carefully by posing such questions. “I 
don’t want to be rude, you’ve been very trustworthy ever since you 
stepped in to help me out.” 
Xave crossed his legs, his left arm resting on the table, his right arm 
dangling from his shoulder. His suit featured gray stripes today, Walter 
noticed. 
Why isn’t he saying anything? Walter thought, panicking. “I’m sorry, I 
shouldn’t have asked.” 
“No, no, it’s fine,” Xave finally replied. “We’ve only known each other 
for a week.” 
Their voices echoed off the walls, even though the warehouse was now 
packed with all of Walter’s basement equipment and new furniture. He 
couldn’t believe that already two days had passed since they had moved 
his stuff in here. 
Walter waited for more. 
“I’ll be honest with you, my life has and always will be about money,” 
Xave begun. “I wasn’t exactly successful until I met you, but I think we’re 
off to something great here.” 
Xave placed both feet on the ground and leaned forward. “We’re in the 
same boat,” he said. “If I carve a leak in it, I’ll drown as well.” 
Walter let the words resonate in his head, just like the walls of the hall 
absorbed them. 
“Will you ever turn on me?” Walter asked in a sinister tone. 
“I might be cold and quick to react, but I assure you I will never find a 
reason to hurt our business relationship. And if I do, I’ll try to look for a 
way around it,” Xave said. 
“That’s not very convincing.” 
Xave sighed. “I’ll give you access to my bank account.” 

 
66 
“You might have more than just one.” 
“I’ll make you a copy of my car keys.” Xave sounded annoyed and 
slightly desperate. 
Walter still wasn’t sure. This man could turn his life around anytime, 
just as he already did. “I don’t drive,” he said. 
“I’ll dance around naked in town and write your name on my chest.”  
“You’ll get arrested, and then you won’t be able to help me,” Walter 
said dryly. 
“Okay.” Xave banged his fist on the table. “Here.” He stood, and pulled 
a golden watch out of the chest pocket of his shirt. “This was given to me 
by my father, who is dead now. The clock’s not working, and on the left 
side it shows an old image of my father and my mother, who, by the way, 
is also dead. And despite all the money I will ever make with you as a 
business partner, this is always going to be the greatest treasure I have 
ever had the honor of calling my property.” 
Walter could see that he had pushed over the boundary. He was 
shocked at his own stubbornness. “Ah, that’s alright.” He leaned back and 
folded his arms. “I’m sorry I doubted you.” 
Xave left the golden watch dangling on his index finger for a second. 
Then he put it back into its place and took a seat on a swivel chair.  
“Do you trust me?” Walter asked. 
“I trust that you could build a weapon that could kill me in my sleep 
without you even being close to me, so the simple fact that I have survived 
a week in your vicinity makes me believe in your sweet affection towards 
me.” 
Walter felt ashamed. “That’s actually a pretty good idea,” he said. 
“Being in love with me?” Xave punched Walter on his shoulder. 
“No, the weapon you were talking about,” Walter said, grinning from 
ear to ear. 
Xave’s face lost any expression of kidding around. “Are we good?” 
Walter shuffled his feet, recollecting his senses. “Yes, we’re good.” 
Xave fell back in his chair, relaxing a bit. “By the way, I talked to  the 
mechanic yesterday. He’s in. He said he’ll talk to his boss, but I’ll probably 
have to do that for him to speed things up. I’ll try to bring him in 
tomorrow.” 
“Sounds good,” Walter said enthusiastically. 
I really shouldn’t have doubted this man, he thought. 
 
67 
 
 
 
Kristella took a sip of her coffee and stared at the fluid, jumping up at the 
sides, trying to escape. The flickering screen in front of her refused to show 
anything new. 
Beep, beep. 
There it was again, the outcry of the gray box, even though she wasn’t 
doing anything to it. She was having a hard time understanding the 
apparent improvement on efficiency this thing should bring along.  
She looked up from her mug. What was it trying to say to her? She 
didn’t speak beeperish. 
A look at the pile of paper that should’ve been digitalized today 
brought her down even more. Tired, she rose from her seat like a 
marionette, pulled upwards by invisible threads, and slurped to the tilted-
open window, enjoying a little air of freedom. 
She recalled the night Xave had brought her home. He had tried to get 
to know her better by going through various topics one after another. He 
was charming at least, not a brute like so many others have been before 
him. Still - he was a salesman; finding ways to people’s hearts was his 
bread and butter. 
She had been waiting for him to call ever since. It had definitely felt like 
a dream, her jumping into the truck like a careless child, hiding from the 
workers, then coming out to meet Xave and Walter. It had been the most 
surreal experience in her life. Nothing had ever felt so exciting, so terrific, 
so full of life, and yet so like a dream at the same time. 
There was fog hanging amidst the city walls, shutting out the sun like a 
thick spider web. The sky was painted pure white; a rather unusual 
Summer day. 
Kristella turned her head back to what seemed to be her final resting 
place. A grave she was sitting in before she was even dead, buried under 
endless heaps of paper. 
That’s it, she thought. Enough of this. 

 
68 
She tried telling the computer to shut down with various key strokes 
she thought the machine should understand. Then she leaned over and 
pulled the plug. 
As she was about to leave the office, the phone rang. 
The door she had just opened swung to the side uncontrolled, banging 
against the hat stand. Kristella’s eyes were focused on the black little thing 
on the table, which was trying to get somebody’s attention every three 
seconds. 
She let it ring twice, three times - jumped towards it and grabbed the 
receiver. “Hello?” 
“Kristella? This is Xave,” a familiar voice said. 
“I was just about to go and meet you guys,” Kristella answered.  
“Good, you’re hired.” 
Hired? Oh, right, he was trying to score with his charm. “Quit it,” she 
said, smiling. 
“Yes, you should quit whatever job you’re having right now,” Xave 
insisted. “And then get over here. We need another assistant. You’re 
working in an office right now, correct?” 
Kristella became nervous. “Yes, but-” 
“Don’t worry, you’ll get three times more than what you’re being paid 
right now. Just tell us your current wage and we’ll triple it.” 
She laughed in return, but choked a bit on the anxiety stuck in her 
throat. “I... I’m not sure I’m cut out for the tasks you have in mind for me.” 
“You’ve already shown courage, that’s enough,” Xave assured her. 
Kristella closed her eyes for a moment. She imagined herself standing at 
a crossroads, the left way leading back to her current life, always in a loop, 
the right one exiting the circle into the unknown. 
Determined, she looked out the window. “I’ll be there in an hour,” she 
agreed. 
 
69 
 
 
 
Kristella stepped out of the taxi and handed the driver one hundred and 
fifty Schilling. “Keep the change,” she said, hoping that the money would 
return to her through a different source soon. 
The taxi drove off, leaving a dirt cloud behind. Kristella turned around 
and faced the building. 
Only two days had passed and so much had changed, she realized.  
A meter away from the walls there was a black steel fence embracing 
the building, reaching two meters into the air. Security cameras panned 
left and right atop each corner of the fence, and two additional in front of 
the entrance gate. The fence had an additional door that needed to be 
opened, and there was a button next to it and a small speaker below it.  
Astonished, she walked forward and pressed the button, resulting in a 
ringing tone inside the house. The loudspeaker clicked. 
“Yes?” Walter’s voice asked. “Oh, it’s you.” 
Kristella’s mouth had formed a word to reveal her identity, but instead 
she smiled awkwardly and pushed the door of the fence inward as she 
heard an electrical buzz. 
Walter opened one half of the gate for her without saying anything, and 
as soon as she had walked past him, he closed it again. 
Xave approached Kristella. “Good to see you,” he greeted her and 
shook her hand. 
“This place has changed a lot,” she noted, looking around. 

 
70 
The warehouse had been turned into a full-blown laboratory. There 
were six sections now, divided by waist-level wooden walls as thick as an 
arm. The first section on the right had a thick round oriental rug in the 
center and two sofas placed on it, this area seemed to be used for resting, 
sleeping, hanging out, and brainstorming. Adjacent to that area was the 
kitchen, obviously for preparing food, eating, drinking, and, judging by 
the neatly stacked decks, for playing cards. The third section in the far 
right corner of the warehouse appeared to be used for storage as it had 
random objects standing around in no particular order. Opposite to that, 
Kristella saw two glass booths - must be the beaming booths - and hundreds 
of cables on the ground, which were connected to a console with a 
ridiculous amount of buttons. The second area from her left had a desk, 
cupboards and one of those computers she hated so much. And the sixth 
area, the one she was actually standing in, had two desks and eight TVs 
stacked in two rows, and another console with knobs and labels hooked up 
to them. The TVs showed monochrome images from the security cameras 
outside, flickering from time to time. 
“We’re finally able to get other stuff done, now that we’ve moved in 
completely,” Xave said. 
“You both live here?” Kristella asked. 
“I still sleep in my apartment. As for Walter, well...” He looked at the 
scientist, who scratched his head. 
“I can’t really go back to my house right now anyway,” Walter justified 
himself. 
Kristella took another quick look around, trying to find a bathroom or 
at least a shower. 
Xave seemed to have read her mind and said: “The bathroom is down 
the stairs in the basement and yes, there’s even a shower.” 
“Not bad,” she said. “Say, what happened to your fans outside?” 
Walter seemed to be impatient and folded his arms. 
“We bought this place, or rather, he did,” Xave nodded at Walter. 
“They were standing on private property and we threatened to sue the m 
all. So, either they’re gone, or they’re camping half a mile away 
somewhere.” 
“Ah,” Kristella said.  
There was a pause. A feeling of uncertainty overcame Kristella. This 
was becoming more surreal with every passing second. 
“Well, why don’t you have a seat over there while Walter and I 
continue our work?” Xave said, showing his teeth. 
“I... I don’t understand,” Kristella said. “Am I just here to sit around?”  
 
71 
For a moment she thought she had simply been hired for her looks, 
something to stare at in case they were bored. 
“Oh, you’ll be reading for a bit,” Xave said. He went to the hangout 
zone, as Kristella had labelled it in her head, grabbed a stack of paper, 
returned and handed it to her. “This is all you need to know about 
Walter’s invention. Travelling, beaming, transporting, teleporting, 
jumping, sliding - whatever you want to call it. It all means the same thing 
- a new way to reach destinations in the blink of an eye.” 
Kristella held the bleached pile of dead wood in her hands. “Travelling 
- By Walter Trimond”, the first page read. 
“And you’re going to tell the world all about it,” Xave said 
encouragingly, patting Kristella’s shoulder. 
 
72 
 
 
 
One day later, when the sun was hovering straight above and roasting the 
earth, two pitch black limousines parked in front of the heavily secured 
warehouse. Each of them spawned three bodyguards in tight suits, one 
more muscular than the other. The mayor of Monoura got out of the first 
car, casually dressed in gray trousers, a white shirt with thin gray stripes 
and brown suspenders. 
A few moments later, the mayoress of Taresville rose from the second 
classy automobile. Her red hair was drawn back into a tight knot. Her 
dress, black and elegant, reached down to her ankles, its V-shaped 
décolleté emphasizing the small, sparkling jewel resting on her chest. 
She waited for Petar to press the button on the intercom that was 
affixed next to the gate and slightly raised her chin towards the nearest 
security camera. 
“Please come in,” Walter’s voice resounded from the speaker. 
Everyone heard a distorted humming and Petar pushed open the small 
door that was built into the massive gate. Two bodyguards squeezed past 
him, scanning their surroundings. 
Petar went in, followed by Isela. 
The other bodyguards waited outside like alert watchdogs. 
Walter opened the left part of the inner gate and welcomed them. “It’s 
an honor to have you here,” he said, shaking hands with both mayors.  
Walter entered the warehouse, followed by Isela, Petar and two 
gorillas. The scientist closed the gate. 
Xave greeted them. “Good day to you, Mrs. Mantorry. Good day to you 
as well, Mr. Toringen. I assume you bring positive news?” 
“We have a deal,” Isela proclaimed. “But right now it’s merely in verbal 
form. We would like to change that.” 
“Exactly,” the mayor of Monoura approved, proudly sticking out his 
belly. 
“Please, don’t touch that,” Walter said to one of the bodyguards who 
was checking out the glass booth in the back area. 

 
73 
“I’m sorry,” he said in a low voice. 
“Shall we sit?” Xave offered, and gestured at the two spacious sofas. 
“There’s no time,” Isela declined, raising her hand. “We must be on our 
way soon. Other cities have caught wind of your invention and the 
rumours have ignited a bit of a contest.” 
“Luckily, we’ve been in talk with you first,” Petar added. 
The bell rang and Walter went to operate the intercom. “Yes? Oh, it ’s 
you again.” 
Unhurriedly, he made his way to the gate and opened it using his 
weight. Kristella walked in - and was taken aback by who was standing in 
front of her. 
“Kristella, glad you are here,” Xave said warmly. He introduced her to 
the mayors. 
“A pleasure to meet you,” Kristella greeted them, intimidated. 
Isela looked at her silver wristwatch, stressing the fact that her time was 
limited. 
“She can be a witness,” Xave said. “I’ll prepare the document.” He 
hurried to the desk that was home to one of the computers, fetched a pen 
and several sheets of paper from the leftmost drawer and started writing.  
As the gate clanked shut, Walter rejoined with the mayors and Kristella.  
“May I see it?” Isela asked him, her green eyes filled with curiosity. 
“Naturally,” Walter said, and led the way to the two glass booths. 
The mayors followed immediately, while Kristella hesitated for a 
moment before tagging along. This was her working place, after all . 
Isela looked the two apparatuses up and down and sneered. “How 
unremarkable,” she said, then her expression lifted. “Yet impressive.”  
“I can assure you that it works, Mrs. Mantorry,” Petar said. “I’ve seen it 
with my own eyes. And one of my bodyguards can attest that it’s the real 
thing - he was the one being teleported.” He waved at the bodyguard near 
the gate, who simply nodded once. 
“Travelled,” Walter said, smiling with a strain. 
“Travelled?” Isela asked. 
“Yes, I prefer that term.” 
“One cannot be travelled,” Isela corrected him. “But I admire your 
choice of humble words for something that will change the world.”  
Walter looked embarrassed and laughed sheepishly. “I don’t foresee 
such an optimistic future for my invention.” 
“You’re quite near-sighted then,” Isela said. She touched the glass 
booth at the top, where it was shaped like a dome. “May I see it in action 
as well?” 
 
74 
Walter sharply inhaled through his teeth. “I’m afraid that’s not possible 
right now, I’m currently recalibrating the instruments, exchanging cords 
and improving the overall design. There’s still a lot of energy being used.” 
He pointed at the loose parts scattered around the device. 
“We’ll let you know the instant it works again,” Kristella added to the 
discussion. “You have my word.” 
The two mayors and Walter turned around to face her. 
“Very well,” Isela said, showing no emotion. 
“Here it is,” Xave said, marching towards the group with pen and 
paper in hand. 
Without warning, Isela snatched the document and the writing utensil 
and skimmed through the handwritten text. 
Xave stuck his hands into his trouser pockets and waited patiently. 
Walter looked at him nervously, while Kristella was squinting and trying 
to read the document from afar. 
 
“This document represents the willingness of all parties 
involved to exclusively connect the city of Taresville to the village 
of Monoura using the invention, an instant travelling device, of 
Walter Trimond. 
 
Until that connection has been placed, no other cities, villages 
or other locations shall be permitted to use said invention. All 
involved parties agree that after the exclusive initial connection 
has been made, this document and its goal and intention are 
nullified. 
  
We - meaning Mrs Isela Mantorry, mayoress of Taresville, Mr 
Petar Toringen, mayor of Monoura, Mr Walter Trimond, inventor 
of the instant travelling device, Mr Xave Stern, salesman, and Ms 
Kristella Attenburg, contract witness - hereby approve of the terms 
stated above.” 
 
Isela showed the document to Petar without letting go of it. After a  few 
seconds they both nodded and she pressed the paper against the glass of 
Walter’s invention. She signed at the bottom with a graceful squiggle and 
gave the pen to Petar, who scribbled his name as well. 
 
75 
Walter was next in line, drawing his full name between the two 
mayors’, then Xave took hold of the pen and, while Isela was still pinning 
the sheet against the transparent, cold material, he autographed it and 
gestured at Kristella to come. 
She was the last to spell her name as curly as possible, having a hard 
time finding a free spot beneath all the presumptuous graffitis. 
“We need photocopies,” Isela commanded. 
Xave received the document from Kristella, ran it through the machine 
next to the computer desk, and handed a copy to every participant.  
Isela shook her head. “I will take the original and treasure it,” she said, 
sticking out her copy. 
“Fine with me,” Xave said, and exchanged the genuine contract with 
her copy.  
“I’m glad we settled this in writing,” Isela said, satisfied. “If you will 
excuse us now, we’ll have to parade the news to our competitors, now that 
it’s official.” 
“Certainly.” Xave nodded deeply. 
“Thank you,” Walter said. “For your trust.” 
“I’m convinced you’ll be worth the investment,” the mayoress of 
Taresville said. 
“I’m quite sure of that as well,” Petar added, his double chin wobbling 
with excitement. 
“You’ll be hearing from me,” Kristella said, shaking hands with both of 
them. 
“Looking forward to it,” Isela replied. 
The mayors made their way to the exit, followed by Walter and the two  
bodyguards. The scientist showed them out. 
Kristella had to sit down. “I feel dizzy,” she said, exhausted. 
“You’re doing great,” Xave tried to cheer her up. 
Walter walked past them, taking a deep breath and letting it out with a 
sigh. “Back to work then,” he said. 
 
76 
 
 
 
“Rick should be here soon,” Xave said to Kristella, who was sitting on the 
sofa, reading through Walter’s notes about travelling. 
“The mechanic, right?” Kristella asked. 
She looked tired, Xave thought. But no less beautiful. 
“Yes, he’ll assist Walter. I’m going to drive around and see where we 
can put these things.” He gestured at the glass booths at the other end of 
the warehouse. “I probably won’t be back until nightfall.” 
“Alright, take care,” Kristella said. “Oh one more thing, when am I 
getting paid? Taking a cab twice every day is kind of putting a hole into 
my wallet.” 
“Ah, of course, Walter?” He went to see the scientist, who was buried 
somewhere in the storage area, looking for something. “Walter, can you 
hear me?” 
Walter crawled out from underneath a large metal plate, possibly from 
an airplane, almost hitting his head. “Very funny. Of course I can hear you. 
What’s up?” 
“She needs money for the cab,” Xave said bluntly. 
“Sure, I’ll give her some.” Walter kept looking around, disinterested. 
There was something about the way he acted that Xave didn’t like. 
With a lowered voice, he asked: “Is there something I need to know?”  
That got Walter’s attention. His eyes fixated on Xave. 
“No, why?” 
“You’re behaving differently, and I have a feeling that it’s because of 
her.” 
There was a flash of guilt on Walter’s face, affirming Xave’s 
assumption. But it was neither hate, nor any other malevolent look in his 
eyes - rather, something else. Shyness? 
Walter tried hard to deny it. “I don’t know what you’re talking about.” 
Xave gave up for now, but he made a mental note to come back to that 
topic later on. “Fine - don’t forget to give her money, please. I’ll take a look 
around for a fitting place for your travelling instruments.” 

 
77 
Travelling instruments - Xave knew Walter liked to compare his 
creations to music. 
“Sure,” the scientist said. 
Xave left the warehouse through the gate and fence contraption and 
entered his car around the corner. 
On the way back into the city, Xave went through various scenes of th e 
past few days in his head. It all had happened so fast that he needed to sort 
through all the important events. 
He looked at the dashboard of his car, patting it with his right hand. It 
was a good car, probably fifteen years old by now. It wouldn’t hold out 
much longer. 
Then, with a strange feeling, he realized that he probably wouldn ’t need 
it much longer. Maybe. 
The idea of stepping into Walter’s device terrified him a little, and deep 
down inside he prayed he’d always have his car to move around. 
He wondered if people felt the same when trains were introduced to 
the public a few centuries ago and if others would share his uncertain 
feelings. 
With a shrug, he shook off his doubts. 
When the traffic lights turned red in front of him, he used the time to 
look at a map of Taresville. 
Between miles and miles of house blocks and streets, there were a few 
areas where the density loosened up a bit. Several parks put green holes 
into the otherwise uninterrupted city web. 
An obvious choice would be right in front of the city hall, he realized. 
Somebody honked twice and Xave drove on, waving his hand upwards 
to whoever was behind him. 
Several turns later, he arrived at the city hall and spent another fifteen 
minutes circling around in heavy traffic to find a free parking space. 
After locking up his car, he went to the Roman-style building. It was 
surrounded by five-meter tall pillars and crowned by a triangle shaped 
roof with a Latin phrase carved into the front, reading “vox populi vox 
dei”, which probably meant, “instant travelling is going to make you rich.” 
There was also a statue of some smart-ass sitting in front of it on a 
pedestal. Xave scoffed at it, but he admitted to himself that he was actually 
envious. 
He stood in front of the petrified giant and turned around. There was a 
wide place in front of the city hall, plastered with white marble stones. 
Adjacent to that was the broad street, jam-packed with cars and buses, and 
across the street, there was a park with lush vegetation. 
 
78 
Xave put his hands on his hips, pulling back his jacket. 
It was perfect. 
 
79 
 
 
 
“How do I look?” Rick asked his son and his wife, standing in the entrance 
area of their apartment. 
He looked just the same as one hour before; blue jeans, gray sneakers, 
suspenders, gray pullover. Only now he had taken a shower before work, 
instead of afterwards, so his hair fell differently. 
“Nervous,” his Roanne said, holding her son in front of her by his 
shoulders. 
“Can I come with you?” Bernand asked. 
“Not today, but I’ll see what I can do,” Rick said, putting a blue cap on 
his head. 
“Yay!” his child exclaimed, dragging out the “y” at the end for a few 
seconds. 
Rick chuckled. “You be good to your mommy while I’m gone.” He 
kissed his wife on her cheek. “See you later.” 
“Take care,” she said, waving. 
Rick went out, down into the parking garage, which was used by 
everyone living in the block, sat down in his Ford Escort Mark IV and 
drove away. 
It was afternoon already. Xave had rung up Rick’s boss in the early 
morning, which had caused quite a storm. Rick hadn’t had to quit; he had 
been fired on the spot and basically thrown off the premises. 
He hadn’t told that to his wife. She knew about his decision to try the 
new job, so there was no harm in not telling and thus not worrying her.  
Besides, a certain confidence had grown inside Rick that the new job 
was going to work out. He’d make sure of that. 
He was supposed to meet with Xave, but traffic increased and finally 
jammed. He was late. 
When he arrived at the warehouse, which, to his surprise, looked more 
like a prison with the strange fence and all the security cameras, he noticed 
that Xave’s car wasn’t there. 
He might be here without his car, Rick noted. 

 
80 
He parked around the corner, stepped outside and pushed the button 
next to the door in the fence. 
“Yes?” a male voice answered after a short while. 
“Rick Lorand, I’m here for the job,” the mechanic said, unsure about 
what that job would entail. 
It was almost dark now and Rick felt a chill running down his spine. 
Probably just a gust of wind, he tried to calm himself. 
The door buzzed and Rick went inside, where a man in a white coat 
opened the gate for him. 
“My name is Walter Trimond, I’m the scientist working on this project,” 
he said to Rick. 
They shook hands. 
“Pleasure,” Rick said, noticing that he probably almost broke the 
scientist’s fragile hand by squeezing it too hard. 
They went inside and the gate slammed shut. 
“This is Kristella, our spokesperson and general assistant,” the scientist 
said without looking at her. 
She stood up from the sofa and Rick - again - shook hands, this time 
trying not to inflict any major damage. 
“Hello,” she said. “I’m new, by the way. Second day.” 
“Ah, alright,” Rick responded. 
The scientist had already gone far ahead and Rick hurried after him.  
Scratching his head, Walter began talking about his machine. Rick 
nodded in regular intervals without understanding anything. He shifted 
his weight from one foot to another, pretending to be absolutely aware of 
the input he was receiving. 
“Any questions?” Walter asked. 
Rick looked at the two person-sized glass pillars with round roofs. His 
painted-on smile fell apart and turned sour. “Uh,” he said. “Look, just tell 
me what I need to do, like, which cable goes where, and I’ll do that.” 
Walter appeared to be slightly angry about the fact that all his godly 
words had sailed past Rick’s ears without leaving an impression - yet, 
somehow he seemed to appreciate the simplicity of Rick’s compromise. 
“Sounds good,” the scientist said. “We still need to drastically decrease 
the energy use and the white light that it’s emitting when someone is about 
to be travelled.” 
Be travelled? Rick chose to disregard that. 
 
81 
“And,” Walter continued. “We have to test it with a longer distance. 
Physical distance shouldn’t matter, we’ll just utilize a longer cable. It’s not 
that flexible, so we still have to position one booth here in this corner and 
the other one on the left side of the gate. I need you to unhook the left glass 
booth and carry it over there.” 
“I’ll get right to it,” Rick said, rolling up his sleeves. 
Walter seemed pleased. “In the meantime I’m going to order more 
cables and recalculate the energy consumption in my formulae.” 
Rick felt that the scientist had only said that to make a mental note.  
“Sounds good,” he noted and knelt down to the bottom of the left glass 
booth. 
There were a dozen thick black cables stuck around the circular bottom 
metal plate. 
Rick hesitated. “Do I just... cut them off?” 
Walter, who had already taken a few steps towards the area with the 
desk and the telephone, turned around and frowned. Then he seemed to 
realize something and said: “Oh - yes, I think there’s no other way right 
now.” 
“Fine with me,” Rick said, stood up and went over to a cupboard full 
with tools. 
So far so good, he thought as he grabbed a cable cutter. 
 
82 
 
 
 
Around midnight, Xave returned to the warehouse. 
“I’ve got great news,” he announced, tossing his jacket onto the sofa, 
and startling Kristella from her sleep. 
Drowsily, she sat up and rubbed her eyes. 
Xave adored her disheveled look, but refrained from commenting on it. 
“I’m glad you made it,” Xave said to Rick, who was sitting in front of 
the stack of TVs, which displayed night vision mode images of the cameras 
outside. 
The mechanic stood up and shook hands with Xave. “Thanks for 
having me,” he said. “Although I’m still not sure I fit in.” 
“Don’t worry, this is a completely new field,” Xave reassured him. 
“Walter will throw all kinds of tasks at you, and soon you’ll find a spot 
that suits you well.” 
Xave hadn’t had a particular job in mind when he had hired Rick, but 
his ability to repair cars would surely translate well to similar processes.  
As for Kristella - her attractiveness, innocence and wit would prove 
beneficial for presenting instant travelling to the public. As obvious as his 
reasoning was to him, he hadn’t bothered telling anyone about it. 
His mother for instance would have scolded him severely for reducing 
another human being - especially a woman - to an object, just to promote a 
product. 
His father, on the other hand, certainly would have approved. "A smart 
move, son," the voice of his father resounded in his head. 
“Walter!” Xave called. 
The scientist answered from a section of the warehouse where Xave 
hadn’t expected him to be. “Yes, yes. I’m coming.” 
When Rick, Kristella and Walter were gathered around him, he 
produced the street map he had used on his trip to find the perfect location 
for the first instant travelling station. There was a zig-zagged red line 
drawn on it, which connected Taresville and Monoura. 

 
83 
“I’ve met with Isela and then talked to Petar on the phone about it,” he 
began. “The first travelling booth will be placed here.” He tapped on a spot 
in the middle of Taresville. 
Walter examined the location closer. “At the city hall?” he asked, 
puzzled. 
“Exactly,” Xave said, flashing a grin. 
For a moment, Walter scowled at the map, then his face lit up. “That’s 
actually a good idea.” 
Despite agreeing, Xave resisted the urge to brag, and continued: “The 
second booth will be placed here, in the central public place of Monoura. 
The surrounding shops will definitely profit when travellers come 
streaming in from Taresville.” 
Rick and Kristella listened silently, Xave noticed, wondering whether 
they had a hard time wrapping their minds around instant transportation. 
At least Kristella seemed excited. 
Walter suddenly looked terrified. “That’s... a lot of cable.” 
“About forty kilometers, yes,” Xave stated. 
“What?” Walter’s mouth fell open. 
“Isela and Petar agreed that they will help us out in any way possible, 
and they said that they will fund your project with fifty million Schilling,” 
Xave revealed. “I handed them your bank account information, it should 
be transferred in a few days.” 
“It’s not a money issue,” Walter said coolly. “You know that.” 
“I do, Walter.” Xave leaned against the back of the sofa Kristella was 
sitting on. “But it won’t hurt if the mayors feel that they’re investing in 
something valuable.” 
Rick and Kristella were even quieter now, Xave realized. 
He looked at them one after another. “I can trust you both to keep 
everything said within these walls to yourselves, right?” 
“Of course,” Rick answered. 
“Absolutely,” Kristella promised. “My mom already thinks I’m a 
lunatic for throwing my old job over board, so the less she knows the 
better.” 
“Awesome,” Xave said. “Now - Walter, my friend, when do you think 
this can be done?” He tapped three times on the line between Taresville 
and Monoura. 
“First, I need to test if it even works from here to there,” Walter said, 
pointing from one corner of the warehouse to the other. “And then,” he 
paused, rubbing the back of his neck. “We probably need more men for 
laying out the cable. And it’s not only one thick cable, it’s four or five thick 
 
84 
ones bundled together. And who’s going to make sure nobody drills holes 
into any of them?” 
“Isela suggested sending twenty policemen who patrol along the 
route,” Xave said. “From what I’ve seen, your cables are shielded quite 
well, right? So, a little kid can’t just come and cut them with a butter 
knife.” 
“Hm,” Walter said, holding his chin. “That would do, I suppose.” 
The doorbell rang, causing everyone to turn their heads in the direction 
of the entrance with an alarmed expression. 
“Has anyone ordered pizza?” Xave asked, looking into the eyes of the 
others, one by one. 
“Not me,” Walter answered defensively, frowning and raising his 
hands. 
“That’s a shame, maybe we should,” Xave suggested, and approached 
the intercom. 
The TV showed a policeman waving at the camera just outside the gate. 
His eyes were strangely highlighted by the green night vision.  
“Police? At this hour?” Xave wondered. 
Walter and Rick joined him to form their own opinions on the visitor.  
“Something bad must’ve happened,” Rick guessed. 
Kristella sighed and retreated to the sofa. “Let’s find out, shall we?” 
Xave went to the door, opened it and nodded at Walter, who let the 
policeman in through the outer gate with a buzz. 
The uniformed man walked up to Xave and stopped in the door in 
front of him. 
“I’m sorry for the disturbance,” the policeman said, took off his hat and 
held it in front of his belt buckle. “I was sent here to check if everything’s 
fine.” 
Xave hadn’t been informed about any late night inspection. “We’re a bit 
tired, but I’m certain there’s nothing the law can do about that,” he joked. 
The policeman let out a strained laugh. “I know something you can do 
for me, though.” 
Before Xave could reply, the policeman pushed forward with both 
hands, sending Xave stumbling backwards. The door slammed shut; the 
policeman dropped his hat to the ground, drew his gun, and aimed at 
Xave. 
“I need details, notes and blueprints of your invention; files, papers, 
notebooks - everything you have, and you better be quick,” the policeman 
demanded. 
 
85 
Instinctively, Rick, Walter and Xave slightly held up their hands; 
Kristella froze. 
“There are no complete notes,” Walter said nervously. “Most of it is still 
in my head.” 
“What’s this, then?” the intruder said, pointing the gun at the sheets of 
paper on the table in front of Kristella. 
“Instant travelling trivia, but nothing too technical,” Walter explained, 
shivering. “You can have it, of course.” 
Trying not to make his gaze too obvious, Xave examined the stranger 
and noticed that the uniform had no name tag and didn’t seem to fit; it was 
slightly too large and hung loosely around the shoes and off the arms.  
“Oh, I can have it? Very kind,” the intruder said sarcastically, taking 
one step forward. He pointed aggressively at Rick and Xave. “You two, sit 
down next to her, slowly, and keep your hands up.” 
They did what they were told to do. As soon as they were seated, the 
demands continued. 
“You,” the policeman addressed Walter. “You have one minute to 
throw those papers together and hand them over. And I don’t care if they 
aren’t complete, I’m not walking out of here empty-handed.” 
“Just do it, Walter,” Xave said. 
The scientist nodded twice, beads of sweat appearing on his temples, 
and headed into the back of the warehouse. 
“Hey! You better not try anything,” the fake policeman yelled. “Or I ’ll 
gladly start shooting your minions one by one.” 
Kristella leaned forward. “Say, don’t I know you?” 
Irritated, the man waved his gun around and stared at Kristella. 
“Let it go, Kristella,” Xave intervened. No need to unnecessarily enrage 
him. 
“I’ve seen you outside,” Kristella continued, still keeping her hands in 
clear sight. “You were one of the fans.” 
“Kristella!” Xave snapped at her, fearing for her life. 
Walter returned, tripping over his own feet, carrying a handful of 
documents and detailed drawings. 
“Slowly!” the policeman yelled, reinforcing his voice by stabbing the air 
with the barrel of his gun. “Grab the manual from the desk and bring it all 
over. And you, Miss Blabbermouth, you’re coming with me.” 
“Come on, man, leave her alone,” Rick tried to reason with the attacker. 
“It’s alright,” Kristella said, standing up. 
 
86 
While Walter was struggling to collect every piece of paper and put it 
on top of the stack in his hands, Kristella carefully made her way around 
the table, never losing eye contact with the attacker. 
“Nothing’s going to be alright, if you don’t keep your mouth shut,” he 
said, a strand of sweaty hair sticking to his forehead, making him look like 
a lunatic. 
Walter’s face was a grimace of pain and humiliation; he finished 
stacking up all the information he could gather and offered the bundle to 
him. 
“You take them,” the policeman commanded Kristella, pointing the 
gun at her head. He waited until she had picked up the papers from 
Walter. 
How important are these documents? Xave’s thoughts rushed through his 
mind. What would happen if somebody else gained this information? Would they 
be able to replicate Walter’s machines and compete against us? 
“We’re leaving, come on,” the policeman barked, shoving Walter away 
and sending him tumbling against a desk. He violently grabbed Kristella 
by the arm and forced her to turn her back towards him. 
She looked at Xave and their eyes met. 
He watched in terror as they moved backwards, Kristella closely 
hugging the documents, her arm still in the firm grip of the ruffian. They 
reached the door and the policeman pushed against it with his back. 
Should I risk a shot? Xave’s face darkened. Would it be worth ... wounding 
her? 
A fast moving shadow tore him back to reality: Kristella stepped hard 
on the attacker’s foot, drilling her heel into the soft leather of his shoe. The 
intruder yelped and lost his balance. As he stumbled backwards, he 
dragged Kristella with him, and she let herself fall against his body with 
full force, sending the sheets flying through the air. 
The invader cursed, hit the door with the back of his head and finally 
released Kristella’s arm. With nothing to hold onto, she fell to the floor and 
rolled to the side, leaving the surprised uniformed man leaning against the 
door without any cover. 
Now. 
Xave unfroze, jumped up from the sofa, pulled his gun out of the back 
of his trousers and fired two shots at the policeman. 
Blood burst out of the intruder’s shoulder and chest. His body opened 
the door on its way down and lay still, the dark night outside embracing it.  
 
87 
There was smoke in the air; nothing moved except for Walter’s design 
documents rustling with the wind like autumn leaves. Xave only heard the 
familiar ringing noise in his ears, and for a moment, nobody moved.  
Kristella looked up. “Is he dead?” 
Xave forced his stiff legs to approach the body, and checked the man’s 
pulse on his neck. “Not yet.” 
“I hope you guys realize that I might require therapy after pulling a 
stunt like this,” Kristella noted, standing up, dusting off her dress.  
“I’m sorry for dragging you into this,” Xave replied. 
And for weighing your safety against a handful of documents... 
He looked down at the man’s face. “Let’s call the actual police. And the 
mayor.” 
“May I use the phone afterwards? I need to call my wife and tell her 
that I’m okay, before she and Bernand see anything in the news about all 
this,” Rick said. 
“Of course,” Walter replied, absentmindedly raising one hand to the 
ear. 
Xave felt tired and sat down on the sofa, still holding the small gun in 
his hands. 
“You’re a pretty good shot,” Kristella noted, taking a seat next to him, 
while examining the grazes on her elbows. 
“My father taught me,” Xave explained, staring at the barrel of the 
weapon. 
He taught me a lot, his mind continued. 
“By the way,” Rick interrupted. “I quit.” 
Everyone looked at him. There were no objections. 
 
88 
 
 
 
Kristella’s dream about a green hill with rabbits staring at her ended 
abruptly when a loud metal sound attacked her ears. She sat upright, 
trying to figure out her surroundings through the blurry vision.  
Still in the warehouse, she realized. Walter’s probably working on something. 
There was an orange blanket covering her body, which was good, because 
otherwise she probably would’ve frozen to death. 
Her eyes caught the spot where the man had been shot down by Xave.  
She rubbed her eyes and the images of the previous night rushed back 
into her mind. 
Walter had fetched a first aid kit, and Rick had pressed gauze on the 
wounds to stop the bleeding until a paramedic had taken over upon 
arrival. 
The police had joined them shortly thereafter, asking a few quick 
questions to everyone involved, while a bunch of serious people were 
moving out the bad guy on a stretcher. 
Finally, the mayors Isela Mantorry and Petar Toringen had been called 
and informed about the whole situation. 
There wasn’t much else she remembered. She had to have fallen asleep 
immediately. 
Xave wasn’t here. “Is Xave out?” she called to Walter. 
“Yes,” Walter’s voice echoed off the walls. 
Kristella saw that all documents had been collected and neatly placed 
on the other sofa next to hers. 
Her heart raced as she remembered how she had attacked the intruder. 
How could she have done such a thing? What if it hadn’t worked? 
She buried her face in her hands. 
Walter appeared out of nowhere next to her. “I prepared breakfast. 
Even though it’s noon already.” 
Kristella looked at the plate with ham and eggs being offered to her. 
With a deep growl, her stomach approved of it. 
“Thank you.” 

 
89 
She accepted plate and fork and started eating. 
“And I thank you for saving my creation yesterday,” he said stiffly. 
“And all of our lives, of course.” 
Kristella simply nodded. 
“You’re a good cook,” she lied, just to change the topic. At least the 
burnt bacon and the almost cold egg filled her belly. 
Walter scoffed. “I know I’m not, but I appreciate the effort for eating it 
nevertheless.” 
Why’s he still standing there, she thought. This is getting awkward. 
“Xave will be back soon,” Walter broke the silence. “He’s having 
another talk with both mayors. I gave him the idea of placing the cable 
underground through the sewers. Even if that happened only partially, it 
would still decrease the occurrences of random vandalism.”  
Oh yes, Kristella remembered. We’re going to insta-shoot people from one 
town to the other. 
“You know,” she said after swallowing the last bite. “It’s still kind of 
hard to believe this actually works.” She gestured at the glass booth 
standing next to the gate. Thick cables were already connecting it to the 
other booth on the opposite side of the warehouse. 
“Well, you’re here; I suppose a part of you already does.” Walter put 
his hands behind his back and smirked. 
What a smart-ass, she thought. Then again, he was probably right. Why 
else would she be here? The simple idea of walking from Paris to New 
York in the same time it took her to go from her living room to the 
bathroom intrigued her. And here was a man claiming that it was possible. 
A not very handsome, but somewhat likeable man. At least for his 
ambitions. 
“I’ll have to call my mother and tell her that I’m alright.” Kristella put 
her feet on the ground. 
“She already called, I spoke to her and told her everything.” 
“Oh, what did she say?” 
“She was furious. In her opinion, you should have held on to your 
previous occupation.” 
Not in this lifetime, she thought. It’s either shoving a mad man with a 
pistol away with her butt to save lives or hacking meaningless stuff into a 
stupid machine for eight hours a day. And the latter didn’t sound quite as 
adventurous. Maybe if there had been a risk of getting sucked out of that 
super small window. But other than that, surely nobody on this planet 
would want to kill her over boring delivery papers, and even if so, she ’d 
question that person’s priorities before kicking the bucket. 
 
90 
“She lectured me that I should have paid a taxi to bring you back to her, 
instead of letting you sleep here,” Walter continued. “And before hanging 
up, she called me a perv.” 
“I guess I’ll let her cool down before I ring her up.” She tried to comb 
her hair back with her fingers. “What will you do now that Rick is gone?”  
“I’m not sure,” Walter replied. “At least he was here long enough to 
carry the glass booth and connect the cables.” 
Kristella was out of topics, so she kept staring at the shiny magic glass 
box that held the promise of a rather interesting future. 
“Well - if you need anything, I’ll be around,” Walter said charmingly, 
took the empty plate out of Kristella’s hands, turned left on his heel and 
walked away. 
“Thanks,” she said before he was out of earshot. 
She stood up, stretched and went towards the stairs leading down into 
the basement. 
Let’s see if the shower works. 
 
91 
 
 
 
Rick was sitting on a large, cheap, yet comfy chair - one out of two 
standing in front of the TV in the living room - and searching the unfolded 
newspaper for a new job. 
There were a few workshops within half an hour of driving that looked 
promising. He had to be careful and avoid workshops of the same brand 
that he had quit; word surely had spread among the company. 
Or not. Maybe he gave himself too much credit for thinking anyone 
would care about a highly replaceable mechanic like him. 
He toyed with the idea of changing the field entirely and repair 
elevators or simply open up a private company that fixed common 
household problems, like clogged drains, broken lawnmowers - stuff his 
neighbours might need. 
Looking away from the paper in his hands, he noticed that everything 
in the living room was bleak. The walls were white, there was a small TV 
resting atop a rack, filled with nothing but a VCR, an extra VHS cassette 
they used to record shows or movies every now and then, and Bernand ’s 
video games console. There was no rug, just a plain wooden floor. 
And even with so few items around, it still felt packed. It definitely 
wasn’t the biggest apartment. 
The job Xave had given him probably would have changed a few things 
for the better. Then again, he wanted to come home and see his family and 
not die of some freak accident. 
Bernand arrived at home through the apartment door. “Dad? You’re 
here?” 
“Yes, I’m here,” Rick answered. He folded the paper and waited for his 
kid to sloppily take off his shoes and come inside the room. 
Bernand came running towards him and grabbed his arm. “Where were 
you last night?” 
“Didn’t your mother tell you in the morning?” 
“She said you had to stay late, and that you quit! Did you really quit?” 
His face was showing a mixture of sadness, irritation and anger. 

 
92 
Rick patted his back. “It’s okay, son. Yes, there were things happening 
that forced me to work way past midnight and I simply had to quit a job 
that doesn’t let me watch you grow up.” 
“How can you do this to me?” Bernand yelled, almost crying. 
“Doing what?” 
“I told everyone at school that you’re working with the scientist who 
was in the news, and now they’ll think I made it all up!” he whined. 
Rick hadn’t thought about that. And why would he? That was a silly 
reason to be angry. “Just tell them the truth,” he said, knowing that it 
wouldn’t do anything good, except for giving him time to think of 
something else.. 
“I can’t do that, I’d be the biggest loser and everybody would pick on 
me!” Bernand broke out in tears and darted off into his room, slamming 
the door shut behind him. 
“Oh, come on, Bernand!” Ricked called after him. He sighed, threw the 
paper on the ground and leaned his forehead against his hand. 
He had only been trying to do the right thing, and this was his reward?  
He got up, walked to Bernand’s room and knocked. 
“Go away!” Bernand bawled. 
Against Rick’s better judgement, he turned the knob and slowly went 
in. 
Bernand’s room was about two meters in width and three in length, 
containing a bed, a closet and a little desk. The child was lying face down 
on his bed. 
“Leave me alone!” he screamed into the pillow. 
“You have to understand, Bernand, I’m trying to be there for you. The 
job was way too risky and I could’ve been killed every day. There was a 
man yesterday who threatened to kill everyone with a pistol - and he was 
shot twice.” 
Bernand looked at his father with a red face, sniffling twice. 
“I could be dead right now,” Rick added. “Would you want that?” 
To his surprise, Bernand seemed to hesitate. He didn’t understand a 
word, Rick thought. 
“I’ll be in the living room,” Rick said. It was probably best to leave him 
to himself for a while. 
Bernand didn’t sleep that night and kept causing a ruckus. Objects flew 
around in his room, hitting the wall or the desk. He even attacked Roanne 
when she tried to calm him down. 
“I hate you, both of you!” he kept yelling. 
Rick had enough. “Stop it or I’ll break your video game,” he threatened. 
 
93 
“I don’t care about that stupid piece of shit,” Bernand cursed and threw 
himself into bed. 
“You don’t talk like that to your father, understand?” 
“You’re not my father!” 
That broke Rick’s heart. 
Roanne was standing behind him. “He doesn’t mean it,” she mumbled, 
trying to calm him down with an embrace. 
Rick pushed her arm away and left the room, followed by his wife. 
“How can he be so stubborn about such a trivial thing? It’s just a job, 
for god’s sake!” 
“You heard him, he bragged to all his friends about it, and he has a 
hard time finding friends in the first place,” Roanne tried to explain.  
It’s all about him, Rick’s mind started rolling. Ever since he was born, all 
attention had to go his way, and for what? Cheap food, tiny-ass apartment, no sex, 
no money, no contact with friends because they all hate kids, no dog, no nothing.  
“God fucking damn it,” Rick swore, driving his hands through his hair 
with a torn expression on his face. 
“Don’t talk like that, he can hear you,” Roanne warned him. 
“I’m tired, it’s 4 a.m. in the morning, the neighbours are probably 
gonna knock any second and all you care about are the words I throw 
around,” Rick attacked her. 
She blinked. “You got no reason to blame me now, Rick. I’m not the one 
screaming and keeping everyone awake. I have to get up early too, you 
know?” 
“For that half-time job at the restaurant that doesn’t pay shit, yeah, I 
know.” Rick started walking in circles. 
“Stop it!” Roanne raised her voice. She grabbed his arms, forced him to 
stand still and stared deeply in his eyes. 
“You know what?” Rick said. “I’ll keep the job. As long as he’s happy 
everything’s fine, right?” 
“You’re no good to us when you’re dead,” Roanne argued. 
“I’m no good at all, apparently.” Rick pushed her aside and marched to 
Bernand’s door. “You hear that? I’ll keep working for that freaking 
scientist.” 
The bawling in the dark room turned to sobbing almost immediately 
and then stopped altogether. 
Rick went to bed. 
 
94 
 
 
 
Walter closed the lid at the bottom of the glass booth and put the 
screwdriver in one of his coat’s big pockets. 
He admired his work for a second, correcting the alignment of his 
glasses. 
Let’s give it a try. 
“Kristella,” he exclaimed. “I’m doing another test run.” 
“Sure thing,” Kristella’s voice resounded from the other end of the 
warehouse. 
Walter took his cup of coffee, placed it in the center of the open booth 
and closed the glass afterwards. Two large steps to the right and he was 
standing in front of the console, ready to begin. 
First, the woodwinds. He flipped two yellow buttons. Trumpets. His 
left hand raised, as if holding a baton, he pushed another three knobs.  
The ground began to vibrate and a humming was audible. 
Percussion. 
With his foot Walter kicked a hand-sized button on the floor, which 
was connected to the console by three thin cables. 
Then, Walter turned two regulators to the far right: Strings. 
The noise turned into a shriek, the earth trembled - and then, silence. 
The coffee cup was gone. 
“Kristella!” he yelled. 
“The cup’s here!” she replied. “And it’s hot!” 
Walter threw his right fist into his left hand. I’ve done it, he thought. The 
light was basically gone, it was super energy efficient, and it even 
functioned perfectly over a greater distance - however, there was still a lot 
of potential. 
Now to test it on an insect, or a cat, or maybe a dog. 
He could test it himself, too, although he had never stepped inside his 
own machine. 
For a moment he tried to think of a reason as to why he was scared to 
be his own test subject. Wasn’t he confident enough in his creation? 

 
95 
Maybe all those dead rats back in his basement had rendered him 
slightly suspicious. 
Kristella approached him, holding his cup of coffee with only two 
fingers, barely touching it. “Here,” she said, placing it on the waist-level 
high wooden wall that separated this area from the one with the desk.  
Walter came closer to it and sniffed it. “Smells like coffee,” he analysed. 
Should he take a sip? Maybe it would impress Kristella. 
He picked up the cup, ignored the hot material, and tasted it with his 
tongue. “Tastes like coffee,” he concluded. 
“Now what?” Kristella said, amused. “When can you get back to 
inventing laser pistols?” 
“One thing at a time,” Walter replied, trying too hard to make it sound 
like a joke. 
Maybe he wouldn’t have to conduct another test; instead he could skip 
ahead and try to increase the distance once again. Luckily, new bundles of 
cables had arrived that morning, just three hours earlier, which were still 
lying next to the gate. He would simply have to connect all cables into 
longer ones, assuming they would bend enough, and run another test with 
ten times the range. 
Somebody rang the bell and Walter hurried to answer it. In one of the 
TVs he saw Rick standing in front of the fence, looking at the camera. 
Walter let him in. 
“What brings you here?” Walter asked without pretext. 
Rick stopped in the open door. “I was hoping you guys wouldn’t 
remember what I said. You know, something with the words ‘I’ and ‘quit’ 
thrown together.” 
Great, now I won’t have to carry cables around all day by myself, Walter 
thought. 
“I’ve no recollection whatsoever of what you’re talking about,” Walter 
lied, gestured Rick to come in and closed the gate behind him. 
Kristella arrived in the entrance area and greeted the mechanic as well. 
“Glad to see you again,” she said. 
“My son wouldn’t let me off the job,” Rick said, jokingly. “He’s the 
worst boss I’ve ever had.” 
“Ah, well, let’s get right to it then!” Walter said, clapping once. 
 
96 
 
 
 
Not long after Rick’s Return, the connection proved successful over a 
longer distance, and Walter, confident that it would work over forty 
kilometers, signalled the start of the construction. 
It took the self-proclaimed scientist, Rick and a hired crew of forty 
people ten days to lay the bundled cables from Taresville’s city hall to 
Monoura’s village center. Coated by a sturdy, black cable sheath and as 
thick as a child’s body, they ran mostly underneath the surface to lessen 
their impact on the environment. 
Due to unforeseen problems with the ground in a certain location, they 
were forced to cross the outskirts of another city, Whells, and its mayor 
wasn’t very happy about it. To avoid further delays, Xave, Petar and Isela 
made another contract with him, stating that Whells would be the third 
location to be connected to Walter’s new transportation system. 
At least twenty-five police officers were doing their best at keeping an 
eye on the cable at all times, even underground. There were several 
incidents where they either had to shoo away dogs, cats, or birds. Once, 
protesters even tried to cut through the black cables, but the police caught 
them red-handed. 
On the fourth day, an as of yet unidentified person managed to sneak 
by and throw a small explosive device through a manhole into the sewers, 
near the border of Whells. Three of those ten days an additional five men 
were paid to clean up the hole, and to fix destroyed landlines, power 
connections and the broken part of the brand new instant travelling cable.  
Walter’s bank account was leaking money, like a patient succumbing to 
a bloodletting. The mayors were still very supportive, but Isela had been 
doubtful from the beginning, and with every passing day it seemed harder 
to keep her convinced of the project. 

 
97 
The interest of the media had grown exponentially over time. In front of 
Walter’s warehouse there were always at least twenty people, five news 
vans, another bunch of random cars, and fans chilling out in their camps a 
few yards further away. Even Jeremy, the first human traveller, was still 
around, shouting praise through a megaphone during the day, when he 
was allowed to do so. Usually, there were three or four half-naked young 
women cheering him on, as if he were some kind of divine being. 
Whenever Walter walked outside to check on the long cable himself, 
Rick was always by his side to assist him as much as he could. 
Kristella had taken over public relations; she talked on the phone, met 
with people who wanted to know more about the machine that bore the 
promise of having a job and a house thousands of kilometers apart from 
each other, stepped in for TV and radio interviews, and tagged along with 
Xave for business talks. 
On day ten, both glass booths were set up in Taresville and Monoura, 
respectively, hidden inside small blue tents. Walter worked half a day on 
each tent, making sure they were properly connected, and ran tests with 
three generic items, a spider, and a rabbit. 
The rabbit was the only subject which Rick sent back from the other 
end, and Walter’s confidence had finally outgrown his doubt. More or less. 
On the day before the first official travelling from Taresville to 
Monoura, Walter, Xave, Kristella and Rick met the president of t heir 
country Lostarichi. They had dinner together with Petar and Isela in the 
finest restaurant of Taresville. A throng of constantly flashing cameras had 
awaited them at the entrance, much to the dismay of the bodyguards.  
From the first moment on, the president had had the word “doubt” 
written across his frown, but he forced himself to show goodwill and smile 
broadly. 
“Mr. Trimond,” the president said in an important voice, probably 
expecting to be recited for centuries. “Tomorrow you and your team are 
going to reveal a whole new way of transportation to the people all around 
the globe, right here in Taresville.” 
Walter was shaking, but trying hard to conceal it. “Yes, Mr President.”  
He barely touched his food. Xave, on the other hand, had finished a 
while ago. 
“Are you aware that this can - and will - introduce us all to a new era?” 
the president continued, his smile embedded in his face as if carved in 
stone. 
 
98 
“If you put it this way - no, I’m afraid I haven’t thought about that and I 
will cancel the unveiling and take it back to the drawing board to consider 
the aftereffects,” Walter’s words spilled out of him without realizing; a 
bodyguard chuckled behind him. 
The president nodded awkwardly. “Who will be the first to 
demonstrate that it actually works?” he asked. 
Kristella, quickly swallowing a piece of meat, replied: “That falls under 
my jurisdiction.” 
“Your jurisdiction?” the president repeated. “Shouldn’t the inventor do 
the honours?” 
Walter twitched. 
“I shall be the first official insta-travelling woman,” she continued 
without hesitation. “But there were two other humans before me, who 
should not be ignored.” 
The president looked stung, but only for a split-second before 
recovering. “A toast to the new era!” he shouted, raising his beer jug.  
“Cheers!” A dozen mugs clashed. 
Walter felt as if experiencing a dream, or rather a nightmare, and a part 
of him wished he could vanish like his test objects. 
The next day, all of that was forgotten when Kristella, Walter, Xave, 
Petar and Isela were standing in a triangle formation in front of the city 
hall of Taresville, with Kristella at the tip, behind a lectern, speaking into a 
microphone and addressing an audience of roughly two hundred people.  
The glass booth was to Kristella’s left, secured by Petar’s bodyguards. 
The cable bundle began at the bottom of it like a spider embracing its prey, 
and continued off into the sewers three meters away, where it received 
additional protection from two policemen. Walter knew that there were 
men in the canalization as well, overlooking every nook and cranny, up 
until the destination point in Monoura. 
It still boggled his mind, but there it was: the glass booth he had built in 
his basement, being stared at by awed onlookers. 
“As the president said yesterday,” Kristella’s confident voice boomed 
through two speakers on the sides of the city hall square. “We ’re 
witnessing the dawn of a new era. This will be the time when borders of 
regions all over the world start to blur, when international cultures mix 
even more than they already do.” 
Petar and Isela were dressed exquisitely; Petar had chosen a fine 
Stresemann, Isela wore a black dress that was one of a kind, a large yet 
elegant hat, adorned with a  feather, and dark gloves, that reached beyond 
the elbows. 
 
99 
Xave appeared in his classy suit. Walter’s appearance hadn’t changed 
much; white coat, jeans, random shirt, glasses. He had shaved and combed 
his hair, though. 
They all were nervous, yet differently skilled in hiding it. 
Someone in the audience shouted: “Beam us up, Walter!” 
Walter’s face turned red from anxiety. For a moment, Xave was worried 
that the scientist would collapse and tumble off the stage. Or maybe he’d 
lose his last bit of sanity, tear his shirt apart and start biting people.  
“Ladies and gentlemen, I give you - Walter Trimond,” Kristella 
introduced the scientist. 
She stepped aside, clapping. Half the audience applauded, only 
Walter’s personal fan club cheered, with Jeremy standing tall among them 
somewhere in the corner of Walter’s eyes. 
Walter approached the stand and tapped the microphone once. A 
shrieking noise pierced the eardrums of all people present, causing the 
majority to groan in discomfort. 
Walter’s mind drove two-hundred kilometers per hour through 
Wonderland, picking up man-sized mushrooms on his windshield. 
“I-” Walter stopped his racing thoughts and mentally slapped himself.  
“I thank you all for coming and believing in my invention.” He paused to 
swallow. Sweat pearls ran down his back and dropped from his forehead. 
He wanted to continue, opening his mouth to form words, but lost them. 
While clearing his throat, he produced a cheat sheet out of his left pocket.  
“Walter!” Xave whispered fiercely. “Get your shit together!” 
Walter looked back at Xave, threw away the small paper and stared at 
the audience again. “I have no doubt that what you are going to see here, 
today, will change the way you think,” he finally went on with a firm 
voice. “After this quick demonstration, the device will be useable by each 
and every one of you, but to keep it stable, a slight pause of ten minutes is 
mandatory.” Speaking a lot quicker, he added: “Naturally, these 
limitations will be eradicated in the near future.” 
To his right, a TV with a camera sitting on it showed Rick standing next 
to the other glass booth in Monoura. There weren’t as many people there, 
but Rick seemed stressed nevertheless. 
“Can you hear me, Rick?” Walter said. The camera atop the tube, facing 
the scientist and the glass booth behind him, conveyed both Walter’s voice 
and picture. 
“Loud and clear,” Rick’s voice came out of the TV’s loudspeakers. 
“Very well,” Walter said to the audience. “Kristella, would you kindly 
enter the glass booth?” 
 
100 
“Certainly,” she said, carefully stepping towards and into the booth, 
trying not to fall and embarrass herself. Her heart felt like a hammer, 
beating against her rib cage. 
Walter took the microphone off the stand, controlling its cable like a 
snake, went to the booth and closed it behind Kristella. She was now 
breathing air through three tiny holes on the bottom of the cell.  
Taking a deep breath himself, Walter approached the console next to 
the transparent device with the tense woman inside, rested the 
microphone on an even surface, and played the buttons like a keyboard 
player. 
The audience was silent now, expecting the female body to turn into 
little pieces any second now. 
“Go, Walter!” Jeremy screamed, his girls squealing along. 
Isela felt terribly out of place, Xave sensed by looking at her, as if 
standing on the stage of a rock concert aimed at a much younger audience.  
Taking in the crowd in front of him, a chilling sensation ran down his 
spine. He consciously felt the gun in his back pocket; always ready, just in 
case. 
Walter hacked away at his instrument. Steam pushed itself through 
vents on the back of the console, and a soothing hum started to rise. 
Rick kept staring at the camera, squinting to fight the sun’s rays, and 
wind blowing through his hair. Clouds were shrouding Walter’s spectacle 
in Taresville, fortunately; nobody had to watch the scientist through 
squeezed eyelids. 
The hum became louder and higher, and two supporting voices began 
to sing along one octave below. 
Kristella’s smile faltered a little and she pressed her hands against the 
glass, her breath appearing on the translucent surface. 
Petar was tapping with his foot, impatiently. Isela looked at her watch. 
Flipping buttons and turning knobs, Walter shook his butt to a rhythm 
only he was hearing. He hit a round pedal on the ground with his foot and 
punched another vital part of the console - and just as the spiralling noise 
became unbearable, Kristella turned to dust and was sucked into the cable. 
Walter’s machine shut down. 
The audience gasped in awe. 
There was no impressive light show, no thunder, no earthquake. Just a 
woman suddenly gone, like a vampire getting staked and its ash carried 
away by the wind. 
A policeman backed off from the slightly twitching cable bundle, as if 
scared by an anaconda. The mayor’s bodyguards tried hard to appear 
 
101 
indifferent. The one who had been sent through the travelling device 
before corrected his collar. 
A low rumble inside the cables raced through the sewers and got cut off 
in the far distance. 
Kristella was gone. 
His hair in a mess, Walter stared at the TV, along with all the other 
present eyes. 
Xave held his breath. 
On the screen, Rick turned around and looked at the booth behind him, 
taking two steps backwards, so that the camera could see more clearly.  
The cable shot Kristella’s dust with a damped bang inside the booth 
and a distant buzz resonated. For a millisecond the TV was flashing her 
skull, her muscular structure, half her eyeballs, the insides of her brain, 
and parts of her bare breasts, legs and belly, all covered in a rotating and 
pulsating red and blue and white particle storm. In the blink of an eye, the 
remaining molecules stuck to her face - and her body was fully restored, 
clothed in her elegant black pantsuit with a wide cowlneck top. She 
opened her eyes - and smiled. 
The audience appeared bewildered. Had the quick horrifying image 
been too disturbing? Walter’s mind ran back in time and told his past self 
to not remove the blinding light, just to make sure this reaction wouldn ’t 
happen. 
But then - they all cheered, laughed, some even cried. They applauded, 
like a wave crashing against a cliff. Xave ran towards Walter, wrapped his 
arm around him, almost stumbled, then shook his hand, looked at the 
audience and raised both of his fists. 
Walter waved shily. 
“She’s fine,” Rick said warmly in the TV, holding Kristella steady. A 
pleased choir of the audience was audible behind him. 
The police had to hold back several people trying to storm the booth.  
“I knew you could do it, Walter!” Jeremy cried. 
Isela looked stunned. She hadn’t seen Kristella being rebuilt on screen, 
but she was now a firm believer in Walter’s technology. Petar had a certain 
know-it-all expression on his round face. 
A gunshot ripped through the air and hit the booth, leaving a crack in 
the glass. 
 
102 
The audience’s cheer turned into a bone-chilling scream. Like a bunch 
of ants, they tried to escape the place, running into each other. Half of 
them had ducked, as had Walter, Xave and everyone else onstage. Two of 
Petar’s bodyguards jumped in Walter’s direction, while the other two 
looked around like aware watchdogs. 
Another shot echoed through the streets. 
The booth burst into pieces. Instinctively, Walter raised his arms to 
shield his face from the shattering glass. Xave coolly pulled him away, 
towards the bodyguards. 
The policemen talked frantically over their radios, pointing at a possible 
source of the shots in one of the high buildings a few hundred meters 
away. 
Sirens began to whirl, while the voices of the leaving audience faded 
away. 
“What’s going on over there?” Rick in the TV said with a worried face, 
still holding Kristella in his arms. “Walter? Xave? Say something, god 
damn it!” 
Buried below the two towering meat shields, Walter and Xave didn ’t 
move an inch. 
“Are you alright, Walter?” Xave said. 
“I think so,” the scientist replied, holding his head with his hands, and 
wishing himself away to a lonesome island. 
“Get off the stage and stay down,” someone yelled at them. 
The other two bodyguards had run towards Petar and Isela and helped 
them escape with a limousine, followed by Walter, Xave and their own 
two guards, leaving the place empty, apart from a dozen scattered 
policemen. 
The audience had produced a field of random garbage; papers, plastic 
drinking cups, confetti, and a bunch of balloons stuck in the trees of the 
park across the blocked off street. 
The camera in Monoura showed Kristella bending forward and 
vomiting off screen. 
 
103 
 
 
 
The president of Lostarichi himself had ordered the police to protect 
Walter, Xave, Kristella and Rick and bring them into one of the finest 
hotels in Taresville, a building eleven stories high and graceful in its 
appearance. 
Two days had passed since the worldwide revealing of Walter’s tech 
and the destruction of a vital part of it by a fairly skilled shooter. The 
investigations had revealed the improbability that the sniper had been 
aiming at Walter. It had been their goal to destruct the booth, warning 
Walter against moving forward. 
Walter had recovered the crumpled paper with the death threat from 
his house and given it to the investigators. They had said there might be a 
connection to the letter, the other robbery attempt at the warehouse (that 
man had already been sent to prison – and he hadn’t talked yet) and the 
shooting in front of the city hall. 
Someone definitely didn’t approve of Walter’s achievements. 
Xave was lying on a rather expensive double bed in the suite at the 
highest level of the hotel, his hands behind his head, looking at the ceiling. 
Next to him, Walter was sitting at a small table, writing and drawing on 
one paper, throwing it away, getting another, scribbling something new.  
“There has to be a way to get rid of that darn sickening feeling,” Walter 
mumbled. 
“I don’t know,” Xave said, even though he knew Walter hadn’t been 
talking to him. “It’s a nice business move. Vomiting people need to eat and 
drink more, so you can always pair a booth with a hot dog stand right next 
to it. Maybe even make the throwing up part of the action, giving everyone 
a free barf bag before travelling. You know, like in planes.” 
Walter scratched his head with the pen in his hand. “I’m sorry, what?” 
he asked, without looking at Xave. 
“I said, you can do it,” Xave lied, grinning. 
There was a knock on the door. 
“Come on in,” Xave called. 

 
104 
Kristella entered and closed the door behind her. 
The suite was really more or less one gigantic room, with a sleeping 
area, a living space featuring a modern TV, a kitchen with a curved bar, 
and two doors leading to bathroom and WC, respectively. 
“Any news?” Kristella asked. She went over to the leather couch in 
front of the TV and let herself fall onto it. 
“Walter is working on the puking issue and I’m dreaming of Rome,” 
Xave said, while getting up and walking to the bar. 
“And the cops? When are they letting us out of here?” Kristella seemed 
bored, her feet dangling from the left side of the sofa. 
“Never.” Xave poured himself a drink. “Unless, of course, they find the 
one,” he swallowed all of the golden content of his glass at once, 
“whodunit.” 
“You’re enjoying this way too much,” Kristella noted. 
“A free suite in one of the most expensive establishments of the hotel 
business? You’re right, how could I even dare to try and savour this 
situation!” 
“Blasphemy!” Walter shouted out of nowhere, holding up both his 
hands. 
“What?” Xave asked. 
“I just realized that if I had actually believed in an old idea of mine, it 
would’ve helped me a great deal from the start and prevented most of this 
mess,” Walter explained. 
Kristella buried her face in her hands. 
“And you’re calling yourself a blasphemer for not believing in 
yourself?” The salesman waved at him dismissively, turned around and 
didn’t expect any response. 
“I just like to use that word whenever I know I was wrong before, just 
because I was too stubborn to accept a fact.” 
“Blashphemy!” Kristella yelled, pushing her fist into the air. 
“Infidel!” Xave cried out. 
“Burn him! Throw him into a lake! Tie up his hands! In that order!” 
Kristella shouted. 
“Bite me,” Walter muttered and bent his head, focusing on his papers.  
“Where’s Rick?” Xave asked Kristella. 
“Down in the lobby talking on the phone with his family, I think he’s 
pretty torn about the circumstances,” she said. 
“What do you mean?” 
 
105 
“Well, on the one hand, his life just got a lot more exciting, but on the 
flipside, well, his life may be just a tad too exhilarating. His boy adores 
him, though.” 
Xave sat down next to her, resting his feet on the broad, but short table 
in front of them. His butt pressed several random buttons on a remote, 
which he hadn’t seen - and the TV sprang to life with a sizzle. 
A news woman appeared, sitting behind an empty gray desk, with 
pictures flashing behind her head, showing various scenes of Walter’s 
event. 
“-vestigations are continuing regarding the incident of the shooting in 
front of Taresville’s city hall, where a scientist named Walter Trimond has 
revealed a pioneering invention, allowing human beings to beam from one 
location to the other within an extremely small amount of time.” 
“It’s called travelling, for heaven’s sake,” Walter exclaimed, throwing 
his pen at the TV. Xave and Kristella ducked. The scientist grunted and 
picked up another pen. 
Xave and Kristella looked at each other, amused. 
The screen displayed various theories about the location of the sniper in 
cheap graphics. 
“We could watch a movie,” Kristella suggested. “I hear they have a 
room packed full with tapes to borrow.” 
Xave continued to stare at the TV. 
“Why are you so calm, anyway?” she asked him. “Shouldn’t you be 
doing damage control or something?” 
“Oh, I’m thinking. My hands are pretty much tied though. I’m not a 
perfect salesman on the phone, I need to be face-to-face with people, and 
since I’m not allowed to leave, my business is handicapped.” Xave 
swapped positions of his feet. “Besides - the president and several mayors, 
including Petar and Isela, invited us to dinner tonight. It’s a private one, no 
press allowed.” 
“... until then, we will continue coming up with possible scenarios for 
Mr. Trimond’s invention,” the man on the screen concluded the topic. 
“Stay tuned for a report of a company which has just made public that they 
are also working on a beaming technology that will compete with the 
Trimond business. 
Walter’s pen fell out of his hand. Xave and Kristella sat upright. 
“What?” Walter gasped. “It can’t be!” 
 
106 
Xave stood up, walked towards Walter and put a hand on his shoulder. 
“Don’t be alarmed, you’ve simply started a race and you’re still ahead. It’s 
probably just a cheap imitation of some sort, or a quick cash-in, trying to 
sell stuff while it’s on everyone’s mind.” 
Walter breathed heavily. “They stole it.” 
“Don’t come up with unnecessary accusations,” Xave said. “How could 
they have stolen it? The basement of your house is completely empty; 
there’s no trace left of your baby. Your warehouse is safe, secured by the 
police around the clock.” 
Then it dawned on Xave. There could’ve been a leak. A bribery. A 
conspiracy. Now that Walter was out of the warehouse, it was basically 
free to be raided. 
They could’ve stolen it. 
“Aha! I see it in your eyes! You’re thinking what I’m thinking!” Walter 
said, with a bitter voice. 
Xave shook his head, trying to forget all about it. “It’s not true until we 
find hard facts.” 
“It is a mighty convenient coincidence though, don’t you think?” 
Walter asked, sarcastically. “Stepping into the spotlight with basically my 
invention, just as I’ve been removed from the stage with a hook.” 
“Let’s wait and see what the president and the mayors have to say 
about it,” Xave tried to calm him down. “The fact that we’ve just seen it on 
the news makes me believe that it could be some fake news item from that 
one network, trying to get attention. Surely someone would ’ve called us 
about it by now.” 
The phone rang. 
“Oh, that is just great,” Walter said, rose from his seat and kicked the 
bed. 
Kristella blinked. She hadn’t seen Walter in such a state before. 
Xave answered the phone. “Yes?” A long pause. “Oh, certainly. Did 
they show their passports to you? Are they real?” A mumble on the other 
end. “Very well, send them up.” 
Fuming, Walter asked: “What’s going on? Who’s coming up?” 
Xave began to smile. “Your parents.” 
 
107 
 
 
 
“How is my little boy?” Walter’s mother said with a mouth formed to a 
kiss, examining her son like a fragile baby. 
“We saw what happened to you in the news and took the first flight 
back,” his father explained. 
“Ma, please stop it,” Walter said, embarrassed, trying to avoid her 
hands. 
Kristella thought he looked cute, and chuckled behind her hand. 
“It’s an honor to meet you, Mr. and Mrs. Trimond.” Xave stepped 
forward and shook their hands. “My name is Xave.” 
“Marlinda,” Walter’s mother said, her hair slightly gray and curly, her 
body almost half the height of Xave’s. 
“Tom,” the father introduced himself, taller and thinner than his better 
half, but also without any trace of hair on his head. 
Both were in their late fifties, yet they showed showed no sign of aging  
on the inside. 
“I’m so proud of you, Walter,” Marlinda continued adoring her baby. 
“Why haven’t you ever shown us the results in person?” 
“I was never sure it would really work, and when it did, you were a 
million miles away, as usual,” Walter said in a grumpy tone. 
“You know we love to travel, son,” Tom cut in. “Now that you’re 
independent, we have no time to lose, as you can see for yourself.” He 
gestured at his slender fragile stature. 
Walter seemed to have something on his mind, something he wanted to 
always tell them, and something he had always swallowed back down  
again - just like now. 
His eyes met with Kristella’s and he took the opportunity to change the 
subject. “This is Kristella, my assistant.” 
Kristella was already on her way from the sofa, and greeted them 
kindly. “Pleased to meet you.” 
“Yes, I’ve seen you on TV,” Marlinda said through her wrinkled mouth, 
holding out a crooked finger in Kristella’s direction. 

 
108 
“Yep, that was me, making a speech, jumping to another town, and 
throwing up in front of the whole world.” She laughed at herself and it felt 
forced, but charming enough. 
Marlinda focused on her child again. “What will happen now? Do you 
need anything from us? You already have access to all our accounts, so 
you shouldn’t be in money troubles.” 
“The president has invited us to dinner,” Walter said. “We’ll figure 
something out together.” 
“The president?” Tom exclaimed, his jaw dropping. 
“Yes, and some of the mayors of Lostarichi,” Walter added, trying to 
say it as normally as possible. Kristella assumed he wasn’t even half as 
cool inside as he tried to appear. 
“You really made it,” Tom mumbled in awe. 
“Isn’t he something,” Marlinda said, squeezing Walter’s left cheek. 
“I’m sure they wouldn’t mind if you tagged along,” Xave mentioned, 
looking at every person in the room, one after the other. “What do you 
think, Kristella?” 
“The parents of the currently most important man in Lostarichi?” She 
scoffed. “Oh, he definitely wouldn’t mind! I even believe he already knows 
you’re here. Eyes and ears everywhere, you know?” 
“So, when’s dinner?” Tom clapped his hands. 
Walter checked his wristwatch on his left arm. “In four hours and 
thirteen minutes.” 
Tom looked around the room and noticed the TV. “Let’s see if Walter is 
on!” 
Five hours later, they were seated at a round dining table with gold and 
silver glimmering everywhere and each person’s plate surrounded by 
several knives, forks and spoons. 
The circle started with the president, followed by Petar, Xave, Walter ’s 
parents, the mayor of Whells named Sam Steward, the mayor of Illsburg 
called Clause Florentia, the mayoress of Vowkinn referred to as Tyra 
Omand, and finally Isela, Kristella, Walter, and back to the president . 
After they all had eaten delicious soup and warmed up to each other 
with small talk, the president stood up to speak and rang his glass three 
times with a small spoon. 
Everyone went silent. 
“Friends and colleagues, thank you for coming,” he said casually. “Let ’s 
begin our discussion.” 
 
109 
They were in a large private space of the hotel’s restaurant, behind 
closed doors. Every person had more than enough room to not feel penned 
in. All eyes were on the head of the state. 
He sat down again, put away his spoon and folded his hands above his 
plate, shaping a pyramid with his held up arms. “We still have no clue 
about the identity of the shooter, and we think it best to lay low for a 
month.” 
Xave interrupted his speech. “If I may - that won’t be necessary.” 
Kristella frowned at him. The mayors looked bemused. 
Tyra of Vowkinn raised her hand. “Let the president finish, please.” She 
wore a thick layer of make-up on her dark skin, her hair straight and long, 
hanging down to her lap, her fingernails artificially increased in length and 
pure white. 
“The youth of today may seem impatient, but this man is part of 
Walter’s success,” Whells’ mayor Sam noted. “We - the president and us 
mayors - haven’t been able to come up with a solution and I’m sure that 
you, Mr. President, were just leading up to let him speak anyway.” 
The president nodded, and gestured at Xave. 
Xave bowed and continued. “As I said, it won’t be required to keep 
ourselves hidden. In fact, I’m absolutely certain that now is the best time to 
continue. Nobody would expect it.” 
“So, what you’re saying is, Walter should simply repair the destroyed 
booth and let the public use it?” the president asked. 
“It is much grander than that,” Xave went on. “Mrs. Mantorry-” 
“Isela, if you will,” the mayoress said. 
The salesman swallowed. “Isela and-” He pointed at Petar and 
hesitated. The mayor nodded. “Isela and Petar have an exclusivity contract 
with us which would have to be annulled.” 
“What do you have in mind, Xave?” Isela asked, her nose held 
upwards. 
Clause, mayor of Illsburg, lit a cigar and produced a biting cloud.  
“We connect all the cities of the mayors present at this table,” Xave said 
in a firm tone. 
No reaction. At least, not at first. 
Kristella noticed how Walter’s parents felt as out of place as she did, 
trying to blend in as much as possible. They looked around nervously 
under the pressure of the awkward silence. 
“Splendid idea,” Clause said, exhaling smoke along with his words. 
“They can’t appear on all places at once.” 
 
110 
“Yet it would mean we would have to increase security and spread it 
out to several different locations, all at the same time,” the president 
pondered. 
“Not to mention all the cables that have to be protected,” Walter 
remarked. “And don’t even get me started on having to build another four 
travelling booths. When do you think we should do this, Xave?”  
“Why is that a problem?” the president asked. “Increase your 
manpower and work on all four simultaneously.” 
Kristella’s food was cold. A waiter came in and began removing the 
plates. Only Kristella and Walter’s parents noticed him. 
“Too risky, I can’t trust anyone yet with my plans,” Walter declined. 
“There already seems to be a competitor with stolen blueprints.” 
“I’ve heard about that,” Sam said, resting his arms on his round belly. 
“A company announced that they have discovered a similar technology.”  
“Call them and buy them up, if you have to,” the president said. “If it is 
a stolen property, I’m surprised they haven’t tried to blackmail you yet.” 
“It could be true, though,” Walter admitted. “I can’t be the only one 
coming up with that technology.” 
“Hm,” the president said. 
“I’ll deal with that - you’re right, Mr. President,” Xave said. “I’ll try to 
make a friend out of a possible enemy. We would need financial support, 
though.” 
“Come up with a price and you’ll have our support,” the president 
said. “Now, Walter, how long do you think it would take to build four of 
your booths?” 
“Alone? Several weeks,” Walter said. 
“And with enough people at your disposal?” 
“I’m not sure, two weeks?” 
Rick opened the door. “I apologize for being late,” he said loudly. A 
waitress went in behind him, carrying a chair and putting it down between 
Clause and Tyra. 
Everyone shuffled a few centimeters together and Rick sat down. “I’m 
Rick, Walter’s mechanic,” Rick introduced himself. 
“Welcome, Rick, you arrived just in time,” the president said. “You’ve 
seen Walter work, do you think you could build one of his booths?”  
Another waiter came in with a plate of soup, placed it in front of a 
perplexed Rick, and filled one of his glasses with wine. 
 
111 
Rick opened his mouth twice before he was able to pronounce words. 
“I- I think so, yes, I thought it looked complicated at first, but after some 
time working with him, yes, if I had a detailed plan with me, I could build 
one.” 
“Could you direct a small team to help you along?” the president 
continued bombarding the mechanic with questions. 
Kristella felt a little sorry for him because everyone was staring at him. 
Clause put out his cigar in one of the ashtrays and shot a last cloud into 
the air. 
“I believe so, yes,” Rick answered. 
Xave saw his plan come to fruition and leaned back. 
“Walter,” the president said. “Two teams, one led by you, one led by 
Rick, leading ten men each, how long?” 
A calculator chattered in Walter’s mind, his eyes fixated on a point on 
the ceiling. “Two weeks,” he said, almost as if he had wanted to say 
something else. 
“Perfect, I’ll give you another suite to work in,” the president offered. 
“You give my bodyguards here a list of what you need from your 
warehouse and which items we have to buy for you.” 
Walter’s father, Tom, wanted to say something, but his wife stabbed his 
side with her elbow. 
Kristella remembered their wealth - but the president surely had larger 
sums of money to spend. 
“How can I trust you?” Walter asked, his forehead a sinister cloud.  
“Walter!” Xave shouted. 
The president chuckled. “You’re out of options,” he said. 
 
112 
 
 
698 days later 
 
On a rainy afternoon in early autumn, the train was rolling through the 
woods, ten cars long, unstoppable and yet somehow graceful.  
Leonard was staring at the raindrops on the restaurant car window to 
his right, making their way across the glass like worms through wood.  
The seat opposite to him was empty. He was travelling alone. 
The waiter brought a cup of steaming coffee. “14.60 Schilling, please.” 
Leonard opened his wallet, which he had already produced in advance, 
and gave him a twenty Schilling note and a five Schilling coin. “Keep the 
change,” he said in his low voice, looking at him through his shoulder -long 
hair. 
The waiter disappeared and Leonard slid the wallet back into the front 
left pocket of his jeans. 
He knew better than to use the pockets in the back or in his coat. Those 
were the easier targets. 
The clock, placed above the door at the end of the car, clicked and 
revealed to Leonard that there would be another two hours before he 
reached his destination: the city called Taresville, where, according to the 
news, a new travelling method had been developed, mainly by one man. 
Leonard had needed to leave the previous town anyway, for he never 
stayed for more than a week. Two days were already a bit of a risk in most 
cases. 
He picked up the small silver spoon, looked at it, let the lights shimmer 
in its surface. Cheap material, he thought, immersed it in his coffee and 
stirred the black fluid, hitting the inner sides of the cup in regular 
intervals. 
A couple sat down at the table behind him, the woman with her back to 
Leonard’s back, the man opposite to her. 
Leonard knew they were a couple the instant he saw them. Even if they 
didn’t stick together like glue, it was easy to see once you knew what to 
look for. He sipped his coffee and promptly burned his upper lip. 

 
113 
“I’m so excited,” she said to her husband. 
They were both around his age, definitely not much older than thirty 
years. Their wedding had probably occurred five years earlier, Leonard 
figured out just by listening to their voices. In love, but already a little b it 
too used to each other. Slightly bored, even. 
“Don’t get your hopes up, darling, I expect that it’s not being operated 
by the time we arrive,” the husband said. “But we’ll be there first thing in 
the morning.” 
“They don’t let people travel over night?” she asked in disbelief. 
“Didn’t you read the article you showed me?” 
“Well,” she said, giggling. “I was too thrilled and just wanted to see it 
for myself.” 
Leonard rolled his eyes. He was still wearing his brown coat, although 
now, especially with the coffee warming his body from within, it was 
getting hot. It felt good though compared to all the nights he had had to 
spend outside in his life. 
“The article said that they are only operating the travelling booths from 
nine in the morning to seven in the evening,” the husband recalled. “And 
it’s five o’clock, and we still have a good two hours ahead of us.” 
The wife sighed. “Awww. Alright then. But we could still go there and 
just have a look at it before we check in at our hotel.” 
“Okay, let’s do that.” 
“How far can we travel with those things anyway?” she asked. 
Leonard listened carefully. He had been wondering that as well. 
The wife’s husband cleared his throat and answered: “The article said 
that there are six different stations available right now, all of w hich connect 
to six different towns and villages all over Lostarichi, the furthest distance 
being, like, two hundred kilometers.” 
“Two hundred kilometers? How many kilometers are we currently 
covering?” she wondered. 
“I’d say, about the same. Maybe three hundred,” he guessed. 
“And it’s taking us close to four hours, right?” 
“Right.” 
“Did the article say something about the speed? Is it really instant?” 
Her voice sounded more like that of a happy little girl, Leonard thought.  
“Almost, I think,” he said, clearly not being able to remember. 
“Imagine that,” she said. “Not having to sit around in trains or cars for 
hours and hours. Just go wherever you want whenever you want.”  
“No more plane crashes, no more ships sinking,” he pondered. 
 
114 
Except for those cargo transports, Leonard thought. Nobody was going to 
send a container through an instant travelling booth anytime soon. Then 
again, what was keeping them from building larger installations?  
“A whole new world,” she said, dreamy. 
The waiter appeared and took their orders. 
For the rest of the journey Leonard kept listening to their ideas of how 
the new technology could improve their lives and what those “mad 
scientists” would come up next. Outside the window, the trees and the flat 
landscape got replaced by signs of civilization, larger and higher buildings, 
and cars and buses filling broader and more convoluted streets. And 
finally, dim sunlight got pushed back by artificial illumination. 
The train came to a halt in the Taresville train station. Leonard stood up 
and bumped into the woman who had been sitting behind him for two 
hours. 
“Oh,” she exclaimed. “Sorry!” 
“My apologies, Ma’am,” Leonard said. 
They exited the train, first Leonard, then the couple. He wished them a 
nice evening, just to be polite. 
Leonard walked through the station, a giant building, housing several 
shops, filled with a throng of people. There were signs everywhere, 
humans of all shapes, forms, and sizes, and the constant noise of dozens of 
voices talking at the same time. 
His hands in his coat pockets, Leonard went down the stairs and 
outside of the station. For a moment, he stood still and deeply breathed in 
cold city air, forming white clouds as he exhaled. 
“Greetings, Taresville,” he mumbled. “Long time no see.” 
In fact, he couldn’t clearly recall the last time he had been here. The 
eventful years in-between had carelessly overwritten his old memories. 
But the layout of several public places was ingrained in his mind well 
enough. 
He looked left and right, searching for a bus station. The couple was 
standing ten meters away from him, looking at a map. 
They did have the same destination in mind, he remembered. Simply 
tagging along should lead him there. 
He walked towards them, pretending to look for something. To his 
surprise, the woman turned around and started talking to him. 
“Oh hello, we met in the restaurant car. I’m sorry I bumped into you 
you,” she said, giggling. 
Her husband made a worried face, he had probably not expected her to 
talk to Leonard either. 
 
115 
“Can I help you?” Leonard asked, playing dumb. 
“We would like to have a look at the instant travelling booths and I was 
wondering if you knew the way,” she explained. 
Her husband is suspicious of me, Leonard thought. Oh well. “I don ’t 
know my way around this city,” Leonard explained. “I’d be interested in 
tagging along though.” 
“Sure,” the man said. “We believe we have to take that bus over there.” 
He pointed at a bus station over his shoulder. 
“Let’s try that then,” Leonard agreed. 
They walked towards a curve in the road and a sign showing two bus 
numbers. They asked an old woman for directions and took the second bus 
that arrived. 
The bus was crammed with people and Leonard heard another five or 
six persons mentioning the incredible new technology, assuring them that 
they were on the right track. 
Half an hour later, after the bus had finally made its way through the 
slow evening traffic jam, they arrived at Taresville’s city hall and got off. 
“Thanks, I’d probably still be sitting around at the train station, waiting 
for a miracle,” Leonard tried to jest. 
“No worries,” the woman said. 
They waved goodbye and parted ways. Of course, they would still be 
standing next to each other for a few minutes, Leonard realized, but at 
least he wouldn’t have to deal with them anymore. 
Keep social contacts to a minimum, he reminded himself. 
Too bad the woman hadn’t carried any purse on her when their bodies 
had met in the train. On the other hand, if Leonard had stolen something 
from her, he would have been the prime suspect and then getting to this 
place would have been more time consuming than necessary. 
So in a way, he had stolen their time instead of their money. An 
acceptable compromise. 
Two lights beamed at the city hall’s pillars in front of Leonard, and the 
place before the building was wide and made out of marble stone; it felt 
expensive. 
According to the news, the first official unveiling of the technology had 
happened right where he was standing, with the, as the paper had called it, 
“glass booth” being placed right at the top of the stairs leading in to the city 
hall and the crowd reaching way behind him, even standing on the street.  
Leonard couldn’t see any booth or machine or anything. Just the city 
hall and a bunch of people staring. But staring at what? 
 
116 
His eyes followed the gaze of the others, and he turned around. There it 
was. 
Across the street, there was a white, sterile building, which Leonard 
thought was new, but the park surrounding it had been there long before. 
Large bold and blue letters had been placed above the inviting entrance, 
forming the word “INSTANT”. 
A line of tourists reached far to the right along the street. There was a 
low hum, spiralling upwards, and ending immediately thereafter. The line 
moved forward slightly and was stuck again. 
Apparently, they were still operating. Leonard saw that the couple 
from the train had already figured that out; they were waiting at the far 
end of the line. 
He wasn’t here to try it out yet. He simply wanted to see if it worked.  
The cars, buses and motorcycles on the street between Leonard and the 
building stopped again and he zig-zagged through the vehicles to the 
other end. Without hesitating, he simply walked past the line - ignoring 
comments, gasps and moans directed at him -  and entered the structure. 
He had never seen anything like it before. 
It wasn’t a grand room like the daunting train station. Instead, Leonard 
realized, it was just about the size of a regular family’s house, maybe just a 
tad broader. There were five glass containers - or booths - standing in the 
center, and another five right behind them, facing the opposite side. Each 
booth had a man or woman in a spacey blue outfit standing next to it, and 
each and every one of those persons looked muscular and well trained, yet 
friendly and charming. 
Above every booth there were signs of the destinations they were 
connected to. Leonard read the five he saw on this side: Whells, Monoura, 
Glothermines, Mienz, Vowkinn. 
A boy was standing in the closed glass booth to Mienz, his mother in 
front of it, eyeing it suspiciously. 
“Don’t worry, Ma’am,” the woman in blue, responsible for this booth, 
calmed her down. “It is perfectly safe. Your husband is already on the 
other side, as you can see.” 
Leonard noticed very small TVs standing on the ground next to every 
booth, showing the other end of that connection. A man waved at the 
camera. 
The woman in blue pressed a button, a hum built up to a crescendo - 
and the child simply disappeared. 
The mother seemed terrified and looked at the small screen with both 
hands held in front of her mouth. 
 
117 
Her son appeared on the other end and the father high-fived him. Then 
they both cheered and encouraged the mother. They said something, but 
the TV didn’t have sound. 
The mother stepped in, looking at the inside of the booth, now 
trembling slightly with fear. 
“Are you alright?” the woman dressed in blue asked slowly and overly 
friendly. 
The mother appeared to think it over, and then nodded a few times in a 
row. 
The female travel assistant closed the booth’s glass lid, hovered her 
hand above the same button that had already sent the boy away, then, at 
the same time as she pressed it, the mother screamed: “No!” 
Then she was gone. 
Leonard couldn’t believe his eyes. Next to Mienz, the closed booth 
labelled Vowkinn started to sizzle and the bulky blue man next to it 
towered in front of it, shaking his head at the person next in line. 
An old man appeared out of thin air inside the booth. The guard 
opened the lid and helped the man step out. 
So they work both ways, Leonard assumed. 
“This is astonishing,” the old man said in a shaky voice. “To think that I 
lived long enough to experience this...” 
“Let the man outside,” the guard yelled, pushing away a few random 
people to help get the old man through, while the Mienz guard kept an eye 
on Vowkinn. 
“Sir, you’re not in the line,” another man in futuristic blue clothes said 
to Leonard. That man must be around to take care of other things, Leonard 
thought. His dark skin made the blue suit stand out especially well.  
“I just wanted to see it work, I’ll be on my way now,” he apologized. “I 
have a few questions though before I leave. How much does a ticket cost?”  
“No tickets; free of charge,” the guard said. “It’s all provided by the 
state of Lostarichi, which is tax money basically, in addition to funds 
provided by the Trimond company and several sponsors.” He gestured at 
the ad banners hanging from the ceiling, which, ironically, Leonard hadn ’t 
noticed yet. 
Two hums were audible. Another person gone, another one appeared.  
“I see,” Leonard said and created a mental note: Free. “Are you working 
around the clock here?” 
The guard looked distraught and impatient. “They’ve changed our 
working schedules into several shifts today, actually. We’re now open 
twenty-four seven.” 
 
118 
Leonard nodded. Open at night, he added to his list. “Thanks.” 
He found his way out through the crowd, and buttoned his coat. 
Quite impressive, his mind spoke. There must be a way to make use of this. 
But first - he needed a room. Subtracting the money for coffee, train and 
bus, he still had roughly 400 Schilling in his wallet. Sleeping in the near 
park was out of the question with all the security around, but it should be 
enough money for a half decent bed and four walls to keep him safe.  
He walked past the queue of people, which now bent around the corner 
at the next crossroads, and set out to look for a hotel. 
The next day couldn’t come early enough. 
 
119 
 
 
 
“Hello, Walter,” Xave said, while entering Walter’s suite. 
They had bought the hotel almost two years ago, slowly transforming 
the building into the Trimond company headquarters over time. Several 
rooms had been turned into offices, with walls removed and new ones 
erected. The kitchen had been kept intact, providing food for everyone 
working for the company, mainly preparing small meals that could be 
eaten quickly by technicians and security guards. The warehouse had been 
sold again and Walter’s parents had encouraged him to even sell their 
house; the house he had grown up in. Never would he have been able to 
go there again anyhow, without stalkers, fans or press people assaulting  
him. 
Xave was living in the same building as well, in a suite one floor below 
Walter’s. His old apartment was nothing to be sentimental about, so he 
had been able to leave it without remorse. 
“Xave,” Walter greeted his business partner, keeping his eyes on the 
plans on his desk. He was sitting on a broad leather chair, leaning forward 
and looking concentrated. 
Just as I like to see him, Xave thought. “The new cable failure detection 
you’ve let your team install seems to work,” he began. “The connection to 
Illsburg reported an error.” 
“What?” Walter looked up. He rose from his seat and went over to 
another desk in the corner of his suite next to the double bed. There were a 
dozen TVs stacked in three rows, some showing various scenes of security 
cameras, others showing maps of Lostarichi with various icons and signs. 
He loves stacking those tubes, Xave noted. 
“Dang,” Walter said. “Why did I miss that? It should be making a-” 
The scientist turned up the volume of the screen showing a map and a 
yellow exclamation mark on the line from Taresville to Illsburg. The 
speakers beeped loudly. 
“A sound,” Walter finished and shook his head. 
Xave laughed and Walter had to chuckle as well. 

 
120 
“As brilliant as you are, my friend, sometimes you just have to forget 
the simple things to show me that you’re still a human being,” Xave said. 
“I’ll send Rick and his team to have a look at it,” Walter suggested. 
“Good call.” Xave sat down at the bottom of the bed. “I already told 
Isela to cut down on security. The automatic system will save everyone a 
lot of time and money.” 
Walter didn’t respond to that; he returned to his desk. 
“Anything else?” he asked Xave, as if he were trying to say, “I’m busy.” 
“What are you working on?” Xave asked. 
“A crazy idea I had when I slipped in the bathroom in the morning. 
Wireless transmission.” 
“Wireless!” Xave said in awe. “How’s that supposed to work?” 
“I’m not sure yet, but I’ll certainly find a solution.” Walter wrote 
something with a pen. 
Xave started bouncing up and down on the bed. “By the way, people 
still love it. Keeping it free and making it available all the time was a smart 
move.” 
“It was your idea, of course it was a smart move,” Walter said 
sarcastically, but not in an attacking manner. 
“Oh right,” Xave said, grinning. 
“How’s Kristella?” Walter asked, picking up a protractor and drawing a 
circle in-between sketches and scattered notes. 
“She’s talking to mayors and politicians and preparing to expand to 
other cities. I’m getting her the contacts, making the first steps and selling 
them your idea.” 
“Doesn’t it sell itself? I thought people like it.” 
“They do, but the majority still needs that little push to fully accept it. 
And for many, a little push means a leap of faith. The international media 
is more or less embracing instant travelling, but they’re all careful about it, 
just in case we crash and burn.” 
“Will we crash and burn?” the scientist asked. 
Xave had expected another one of his dubious questions. “At the 
moment, we’re swimming in money and support. Even the competing 
company that we fought against a year or two ago was no issue when we 
discovered that they were basically just spewing hot air to get attention, 
with no tech to support their claims. Remember that?” 
“I sure do, still waiting for the next one to come out of hiding to smash 
our success.” 
“I love your pessimism, Walter,” Xave said sympathetically. “It always 
motivates me to prove you wrong.” 
 
121 
“I know,” Walter admitted. Then he looked at Xave. “Please, stop the 
Xaveman Bounce.” 
“Why is your bed bouncier than mine, anyway?” Xave said and sat still. 
Walter looked at his calculations again. Or random drawings. Or whatever 
they were, Xave thought. 
“It stops me from going to sleep. Whenever I try to fall into my bed, it 
spits me back out immediately,” Walter joked. 
“I’m impressed,” Xave said. “That was a fairly decent attempt at what 
we mortals call ‘humor’.” 
“You mortals simply haven’t got the divine ear to catch all the jokes I 
make all day,” Walter said with an exaggerated noble tone. 
Xave looked around and remembered what the suite had looked like 
after the shooting incident at the city hall. 
“Still no sign of the shooter,” Xave wondered. “I hope that son of a 
bitch never returns. When was the last time you left this building?”  
Walter scratched his head, but still kept looking at his most interesting 
papers. “Not sure, the kitchen staff feeds me well. And I still have to build 
new booths in the fifth and sixth floor. Not much sense in leaving this 
place. Even my parents are already god-knows-where.” 
Xave knew better than to pursue the “parents” subject. “Which reminds 
me,” he said. “When can we finally outsource the booth production? There 
are factories all over the globe that could help us out. Don’t you think 
we’re ready?” 
“I can’t give out my plans to anyone else, Xave,” Walter said firmly. 
“You know that.” 
“I know, yes, but the technology is already out there, people know it ’s 
your invention. We already have several patents for it. Nothing’s gonna 
happen.” 
Walter sighed and let go of his writing tools. He looked through the 
window behind him. 
“If you want the world to use your technology as a replacement for 
cars, trains, planes, ships and all other means of transportations - you can’t 
sit around on your plans and keep them to yourself. You’re already a 
footnote in the history books of the future, now I believe it’s time to get off 
your ass and make them write a full chapter about you.” 
“You’re trying to sell my own invention to me,” Walter remarked.  
“Yes, I believe I am,” Xave said, smiling. 
“What if I like to sit on my plans?” 
“A bird can’t sit on its eggs forever, one day those eggs hatch, the 
chicks grow up and have a life of their own.” 
 
122 
Walter sighed. “You and your stupid analogies.” 
Xave knew it was pointless for now. But he will agree soon, he thought. 
“Well - I’ll talk to Rick about the cable failure now and tell him to check 
it out,” Xave said and stood up. 
“Alright, thanks.” Walter picked up his pencil again. 
Xave was almost through the door, when Walter said: “Fine, you win. 
I’ll prepare the plans and documentations for mass production.” 
Surprised and relieved, Xave looked at him, holding the door handle 
with his right hand. “No worries, Walter. This is a good choice.” 
“Don’t make me regret it,” the scientist replied. 
 
123 
 
 
 
Rick hit the beeping alarm clock, which continued to illuminate the 
bedroom with its green digits, showing 5:00 in tall intimidating numbers. 
The annoying repetitive sound died off immediately; he sat up, placing his 
feet on the ground. 
He looked over his shoulder and watched Roanne for a second, just to 
see if she was merely asleep and still breathing. 
The blanket covering her slender body up to her shoulder was moving 
up and down very slowly. 
Sometimes he had these weird feelings that she might die in her sleep 
and he was thankful for every time her breathing proved his fears wrong. 
He got up and walked into the bathroom. 
Living in their new house at the border of Monoura, they had quickly 
grown accustomed to having lots of space. The bathroom, for instance, 
consisted of a bathtub, a separate luxurious shower, two sinks and broad 
mirrors. 
While Rick was brushing his teeth, he went over Walter’s instructions 
that had been given to him the night before over the phone. 
It all boiled down to one issue: the connection between Illsburg and 
Taresville was down and it couldn’t be fixed remotely. The error detection 
system was good enough to locate the approximate location of the failure, 
and Walter had given him the coordinates. 
Walter’s cables allowed for a safe transmission, even if one or two of 
the bundles had been cut. Every week or two, Rick had to repair at least 
one of them. But rarely was a line malfunctioning completely. 
He spat out white foam, put away the toothbrush and flushed his 
mouth and face with water. He didn’t take a shower. Where he had to go, 
cleanliness was irrelevant. 
Bernand appeared behind him in his blue pyjamas, and father and son 
looked at each other in the mirror. 
“Can I come with you?” the boy said, rubbing his right eye. 
“Not today, son,” Rick answered. “I’m going into the sewers.” 

 
124 
“But I want to,” he persisted, yawning. 
“Look, kid,” Rick turned around and crouched down in front of him, 
matching his son’s eye level. “You can’t even see anything yet through 
those tired eyes. Besides, there’s nothing to do for you there. And I’m not 
going to let you travel unless it’s working again. Ask your mom if she 
wants to travel to Taresville and buy you a burger after school.” 
“Can’t I skip school?” 
“We already had that discussion,” Rick said and stood up. “School is 
important, and unless you’re feeling sick, you’ve got to be there.” 
“I don’t feel so good,” Bernand said, his voice slowing down, and his 
tongue sticking out of the side of his mouth. 
Rick grabbed Bernand and flung him in the air, almost hitting the 
ceiling with Bernand’s head - and tickled him. Bernand squealed; Roanne 
woke up. 
“I oughta call the police on you two noisemakers,” she complained. 
Rick put Bernand down again. “If I fix this cable, I promise you, I ’ll let 
you travel to Illsburg as soon as possible. Cool?” 
“Cool,” Bernand said and ran back to his room. 
Roanne looked at her husband, her hair pointing in all directions. “Why 
are you up so early, anyway?” 
“I’ve got a cable to fix before the onslaught of the travelling tourists,” 
Rick said. “Can you drive him to school?” 
They still owned the Ford Escort. Rick had vowed to keep it alive as 
long as possible; he simply loved that car. 
“Sure,” Roanne said, even though she meant the opposite. 
Rick kissed her on the forehead. “See you soon, sweetie.” 
“Yeah, yeah,” she said playfully and fell back asleep. 
Rick left the house with his heavy tool bag and began walking towards 
the center of Monoura. 
The autumn sun was rising effortlessly in the distance as he passed a 
park with a sparkling fountain and ducks swimming in it. After that, a 
bakery teased his nose and stomach, but he had to resist - there was not 
enough time. Besides, he never ate anything before investigating a cable in 
the sewers; it was counterproductive. 
The traffic on the main street leading straight through Monoura was 
light; there were very few people awake at this hour. 
He approached the central place, an area plastered with granite stones 
and surrounded by weeping willows and small statues of important 
political figures. There it was, a small black building with the blue let ters 
“INSTANT” written above the entrance. 
 
125 
It was kind of hard to imagine that approximately two years ago 
Kristella had been sent here through the prototype of those glass booths, 
and while Walter and Xave had been shot at on the other end, Kristella had 
thrown up right in front of him and the cameras. 
Such a memory was hard to forget. 
Rick greeted the woman in the blue suit, who was guarding the booth 
inside the building. “Good morning, Hannah.” 
“Good morning, Rick,” she said. Hannah was about 40 years old, but 
the tight blue suit revealed a body that ignored that fact. 
Rick scolded himself for thinking like that when his wife was lying in 
bed at home, with at least three times the attractiveness. 
But, that didn’t stop his brain from doing so. 
“Lots of travellers today?” he asked, just to get other thoughts in his 
head. 
“Not yet, but wait another two hours and you won’t recognize this 
place anymore,” she said. 
“There’s an error I have to fix on the Illsburg route, do you know 
anything about it?” 
“It’s not working, that’s all I’ve been told.” 
“Fair enough,” Rick said, and entered the glass booth. 
“You ready?” she asked, holding the front lid. 
“Sure,” Rick said. 
He still remembered the first time he travelled, he had been utterly 
nervous, and he had had to put his hands into his pockets to hide the fact 
that they had been shaking. Then, he had heard a short burst of static, and 
seen a light - and had woken up on the other end, feeling slightly dizzy, 
but without the need to throw up. Walter had asked him a hundred times, 
but no, Rick hadn’t felt like puking. Walter had been pleased. 
“Here we go,” Hannah said. 
She closed the lid and pushed a button - the one that ignited the mass 
changer, Rick remembered. 
Hannah smiled and waved him goodbye, as she was trained to do. 
Rick’s right corner of his mouth curled into a smirk, the noise of the 
turbines at the bottom of the booth increased as they spun faster and faster 
- then Rick saw the light again and heard absolutely nothing. 
Sometimes he would make out damp scratches, as if he were 200 
kilometers below sea level, listening to a giant crab digging a hole in the 
mud. 
It was a peculiar feeling; floating, but heavily drawn downwards, blind, 
but seeing bright light, deaf, but hearing muffled clunks and sizzling.  
 
126 
Then, his senses kicked back in and a colorful image was shot at his 
eyes again - he had reached Taresville, and there was a man in a blue outfit 
opening the glass booth and offering a hand to help Rick step out.  
Rick pressed his eyelids together, then spread them wide open, grabbed 
the man’s arm and crawled outside. 
“Thanks,” Rick said. 
“You’re welcome, Rick,” the man responded. Rick was known amongst 
most company personnel, even though he often couldn’t return the favor 
of remembering names. 
“How are you feeling?” the man asked. 
“Dizzy, but it will wear off in a few seconds,” Rick replied. 
“Hey, Rick,” another blue space man standing in front of the Vowkinn 
booth greeted him. 
Rick waved. “Do you guys know anything about Illsburg?” 
“I do,” a woman said, appearing from behind the Whells booth. She 
had a Walkman attached to her belt and an ear plug in her left ear. “I ’m 
responsible for Illsburg.” 
“What’s your name again?” Rick asked unabashedly, knowing he had 
heard it before. 
“Rae,” the woman in blue replied. 
“Ah, right. Tell me about Illsburg, Rae.” 
The tool bag he had tucked under his arm grew heavy and he shifted it 
to prevent it from slipping from his grip. 
Behind him, a traveller - likely a businessman - stepped into the 
building, positioned himself in the booth to Glothermines and was sent 
away. 
“The last one I sent there was an old granny,” Rae explained. “She 
definitely arrived on the other side, but after that, it just stopped working. 
Jayne had to pay her a taxi back to Taresville.” 
“An old woman, you say, do you think she had any, you know, 
artificial limbs, joints, or anything like that?” 
“I don’t think so, why do you ask? Doesn’t it work with everything?” 
“Yes,” Rick said, thinking for a moment. “In theory, at least.” 
There were ten booths in total, standing in two rows, back to back; Rick 
had appeared from one facing the entrance area. The broken Illsburg line 
was connected to one of the booths on the hind row. Rick went around to 
it, placed his tool bag in front with a loud clank and examined the booth 
from afar, hands on the hips. 
Maybe he wouldn’t have to check out the sewers after all. There 
could’ve simply been something wrong with this machine. 
 
127 
Rae had followed him and Rick gestured at her. “Make sure nobody 
gets back here, just say we’re having technical difficulties.” 
He just wanted some privacy. There was nothing he had hated more in 
his old job than customers watching him while he had crawled under their 
cars. 
“Other people could arrive on those four at any time,” Rae argued.  
“Just lock these lines for now, please,” Rick said. 
“Alright.” Rae went to the mini consoles next to the other four and 
pressed a certain combination on each of them. Nobody was able to use 
these routes now. 
“Did you make sure they weren’t in use?” Rick asked. 
“Of course, I’m not stupid,” she said. 
“Sorry.” Rick bent down to his tool bag, grabbed a screwdriver and 
faced the booth. “Let’s have a look then, shall we?” he mumbled to 
himself. 
Half an hour later, Rick had placed various objects around him in a neat 
manner; tiny screws, long screws, cogs, cables, small motors, rubber bands, 
fans, plastic grids and pieces of electronics with chips on them. 
Ever since he and his team of ten people had built half of the booths, he 
knew the plans like the back of his hand, and sometimes he wondered if he 
were able to build one blindfolded. 
He took a cogwheel between thumb and index finger and held it 
against the neon light. Nothing. 
Every vital part was in best shape; not new, but good enough for at 
least another year or so. 
He sighed and as he started to put everything back together - he 
noticed something odd. 
One of the black plastic boxes that contained a large fan for cooling felt 
as if something inside shifted weights when held to different sides.  
He stuck two fingers through the grid, past the blades - and touched 
something. 
It was soft, fleshy - furry, hairy. 
He produced a smaller screwdriver and painstakingly opened the filter 
box. 
Once the grid was removed, he turned the box on its head - and a small 
dead rat fell into Rick’s lap. 
“Ugh!” He jumped to his feet, and the miniature corpse landed on the 
ground between screws and bolts. 
On the other side, people were already lining up again to travel, the 
booths humming and buzzing, the crowd chattering and cheering.  
 
128 
He had to show this to Walter, even if it meant nothing in the end. He 
looked around for a bag or any other type of container, but couldn ’t find 
anything - except for one of his gloves. 
Oh well, he thought. I’ll get a new one. 
The dead fur ball fell into the glove. Rick folded it carefully across a 
horizontal line of the palm, and stuck it in his jacket. 
It took him almost another hour to put everything back together. He 
ran a quick test to see if it worked. 
Nothing. 
The rat hadn’t caused the machine to malfunction. 
Off to the sewers then, Rick thought with dismay, and wiped sweat off 
his forehead. 
“I couldn’t repair the damn thing,” Rick said, while heading for the 
door with his tool bag. “I’m gonna check it out from below.” 
“Alright, Rick,” Rae said, while closing the lid for another traveller. 
“Take care!” 
“Come back in one piece,” another blue guard called after him. 
Rick pushed through the waiting line and went around the INSTANT 
building. 
Illsburg lay directly next to Monoura, maybe two kilometers apart, but 
Xave had told him that the error had appeared closer to Taresville’s main 
station. And as usual in such cases, instead of going through the next ten 
sewer entrances, he decided to bite the bullet and walk until he saw the 
problem. 
It was a good hour before midday, so still plenty of time. 
The manhole had been put right behind the INSTANT structure, for 
easier maintenance. Rick pulled out a crowbar from his tool bag, stuck his 
crowbar sideways into one of the holes, twisted it, and pulled it upwards 
with all his strength. The round stone cover moved. Rick dragged it to the 
side and replaced the crowbar in his bag. 
He climbed down. 
For a quick moment on the ladder, he thought the rat was actually alive 
and running around in the glove in his pocket, but he knew that the jacket 
moved on its own and calmed himself down. 
Behind the ladder he recognized the good old giant box where all the 
travelling cables were captured into one huge mass of black rubber and 
wires, exploding at the top, seemingly digging their own holes upwards 
through the cement walls, to the INSTANT building. 
The air already smelled slightly rotten and humid. Rick sniffed. 
 
129 
“Let there be light,” he mumbled as his foot stepped on firm ground, 
just to hear his own voice. 
He punched a light switch, and a long hallway stretched out in front of 
him, with lights placed on the ceiling every ten meters. 
At least, he wasn’t standing in sewage. Yet. 
All cables were placed in the lower right corner of the corridor, as thick 
and massive as three stacked walruses. 
While Rick was following them for about a minute, he produced a map 
of the sewers out of his bag, with the complete layout of Trimond ’s net. A 
crossroads broke up the cables. They went in three different directions.  
He was now directly below the park, according to the plan. Illsburg 
was the same direction as Monoura - so, West, and currently he was facing 
North-East. 
His finger traced the route to Illsburg from his current standpoint.  
“Let’s go left, then,” he said, his voice echoing back and forth. 
A breeze carried more of that foul stench to his nose. 
He turned around, as if somebody had watched him. Fortunately, the 
hallway to the East was empty, aside from the thinner bunch of cables.  
His heart didn’t agree, and decided to beat a wee bit faster, just in case. 
Fifteen meters further, the hallway abruptly led into an old tunnel with 
dark walls and water pouring in from various pipes. 
The light of the modern hallway ended about five meters in the 
distance, which was also where the tunnel bent down slightly and water 
filled the floor. 
“Here we go,” Rick muttered. He grabbed a bulky flashlight from his 
bag, turned it on, and lit the way. 
Five steps later, his feet were wet. 
The smell became unbearable. 
One of those days when I wished I hadn’t quit my old job, he thought. 
At least his son was growing up in a house - a luxury his own parents 
hadn’t been able to provide. 
While slowly moving forward, he kept checking the INSTANT cables, 
which were affixed to the walls, just above water level. 
Splashing noise all around him, he began to constantly feel followed, 
even though his rational mind kept slapping his imagination for being so 
stupid. 
 
130 
The tunnel split in two, luckily the cable still ran in only one direction, 
so Rick kept hugging the left wall, still checking the thick black coating for 
any damages. Every time he had to focus on the cable, the darkness 
embraced him even more, and he had to quickly look forward and 
backward again before moving on. 
The air became thicker, and if that weren’t enough, several drops of 
unknown liquid landed on Rick’s skin every now and then. 
He jumped - a loud motor sound drowned the splashing, and was gone 
as fast as it had occurred. 
Probably a truck driving past a manhole, Rick thought, pointing his 
flashlight back and forth. 
“Man the fuck up,” he cursed at himself. His grip around the flashlight 
tightened and he put more weight into his steps to make him feel stronger, 
which resulted in louder splashes. 
Then, he hit a dead end. 
It looked as if a giant had decided to put his foot down, not paying 
attention to the tunnel below. There was rubble everywhere, loose stones 
and bricks, pieces of decayed wood and broken rusty metal pipes.  
His flashlight shone at the Trimond cable. 
One of the broken metal pipes had forced itself through the coating 
near the collapsed wall. The pipe was stuck deep inside, like a knife in an 
eggplant. 
He could have tried to remove it, but the collapsed wall made that 
difficult. 
“I’ll need help with that,” Rick mumbled, pointing his flashlight across 
the damaged stones. 
He turned around and retraced the cable back to the exit. 
 
131 
 
 
 
“How about it?” Isela asked, her eyebrows raised. 
The mayoress of Taresville was seated on a white chair which had an 
artistic curve in the back. Her legs, covered by a touch of brown stockings, 
extended elegantly below the coffee table, on which two cups rested, each 
containing steaming black fluid. 
Opposite to her, Kristella, in a dress that easily competed with Isela’s, 
tried to appear as cool as ice, when in fact, she was as nervous as a gazelle 
trapped in the lion’s den. 
“Well,” Kristella finally said after thinking it through for a few seconds. 
“You certainly have shown us immense support in the past years. I see no 
reason to object.” 
They were seated outside of a café in a large pedestrian area full of 
shops of all kind. The surrounding tables were occupied, mostly by 
tourists and people conducting business in their obligatory outfits. Waiters 
continually dashed through the tight alleys between human backs, 
returning empty trays into the café and reappearing with beverages and 
snacks. 
Kristella noticed a suspicious middle-aged man in a suit sitting alone at 
a table behind Isela, occasionally eyeing the mayoress over the edge of his 
newspaper. 
“Please don’t mind him,” Isela said, following Kristella’s gaze. “He’s 
just here to protect me.” 
Isela turned back around and drank from her coffee. Light wrinkles 
around her mouth shamelessly revealed that her body was slowly aging. 
She replaced her cup and continued talking business. 
“I assume we’ve reached an agreement: Taresville shall be the first 
town to connect outside of Lostarichi,” Isela concluded with what seemed 
to be an attempt at an honest smile. “I’ve brought the necessary 
documents.” 
She handed Kristella six sheets of paper stuck together by a clip . 

 
132 
“I’ll show them to Walter and Xave and have them sign it,” Kristella 
said. 
“No worries, darling,” Isela said, throwing her hair back. 
Darling? Kristella tried to suppress her irritation; shook off the 
comment as a common way of talking to women almost half her age. 
Kristella emptied her cup. 
“What does it feel like?” Isela asked. 
“What exactly?” 
“Travelling.” 
Kristella was surprised. “Have you never tried it?” 
Isela shook her head. 
“Hm,” Kristella said, looking at the table to try and remember the exact 
feeling. “Well, it stings a little. Like, needles all over your skin. For a really 
short moment you feel... torn apart.” 
“I see,” Isela said. 
“There’s a noise that somehow resonates from inside your head, it 
resembles that of a large waterfall. And then - there’s light. Not the light 
you see when you look into the sun, it is more of a, uh, impression of being 
engulfed as a whole.” 
Isela listened closely, leaning forward and resting her chin on her right 
hand. 
“You can almost touch it. But - it’s not warm, in fact it’s cold as ice. All 
of those feelings last for merely five seconds or less, but in that state you 
are lying in the arms of eternity.” 
“Is that a text you’ve memorized?” Isela interrupted her. 
“I’m sorry if it sounds like that,” Kristella said. “I’ve had to try and 
explain the feeling to a lot of people, especially the press, and I’ve found 
better words every time I described it.” 
Isela was satisfied with that. “What then?” 
A waiter took away Kristella’s empty cup and asked if she wished for 
anything else. She shook her head. 
“Nothing,” Kristella continued. 
“Nothing?” 
“You wake up at the other end. It used to be slower, as in, you took part 
in the rebuilding process. It didn’t hurt, it was more like a...” She hesitated. 
“A bad dream.” 
“How come?” 
“As if you were floating above fire. That final process has been sped up 
a lot by Walter and Rick, so it’s almost gone. People don’t actually see you 
getting reconstructed anymore.” 
 
133 
Isela also drank the last drop of her cup. Then she said: “Do you think I 
should be the first to travel outside of Lostarichi into another country?”  
“By all means, Mrs. Mantorry,” Kristella supported the idea. “What 
would stand against it?” 
Isela wanted to say something, looked to her side, and ran her index 
finger across the round edge of her empty cup. “I fear death.” 
“You don’t trust the machinery?” 
“Now I do more than before.” 
“I’ve travelled at least once or twice a week for the past two years,” 
Kristella said. “I’m still in one piece, as you can see.” 
As if trying to find a loose molecule, Isela looked her up and down. 
Kristella felt that the mayoress didn’t only look for missing body puzzle 
pieces, but also to examine her dress closer. 
Isela changed the topic. “I’ll meet up with two presidents and see which 
one is more open to the idea of a temporary exclusivity deal. My assistant 
will call you when I know more.” 
“Wonderful,” Kristella said, noticing that the discussion was about to 
end. “Thank you.” 
They shook hands, although for Kristella it was more like holding her 
hand with a slight squeeze. They rose from their seats and went away in 
opposite directions. 
 
134 
 
 
 
Leonard’s fingers reached deep into his coat pockets - and only retrieved 
crumbs, dust and dirt. 
His talent of acquiring money with ease had resulted in the habit of 
living extravagantly - especially concerning exquisite food. In turn, he 
often found himself with nothing to his name. 
He sighed at his empty hands. 
It’s time. 
While strolling through the rural residential area, dodging playing 
children and evading a whole group of preschool toddlers with their neon 
colored hats and their anxious caretakers, he thought hard about possible 
advantages of travelling. There were certain benefits; he just wasn’t able to 
see them yet. 
Using the booths to flee from a group of followers was not an option. 
They would take him far away, but in a predictable direction, and in an 
environment full of people. 
Well, not at night. But there were still security guards in silly violet 
science fiction costumes. Or were they blue? He couldn’t care less. 
He crossed a street and someone honked at him. 
Standing in line would be an opportunity. Right before his turn, he 
could rob something valuable from the person in front of him, then travel 
to a different destination, and leave them to figure out why the wallet 
hadn’t been brought along. 
It was the system’s fault, people might say. It leaves wallets out of the 
rebuilding process and materializes on some other location where already 
heaps of wallets had gathered. It’s like a big conspiracy of the crazy 
scientist. 
Or - they could realize it was him and tell the guards on the other side 
to pin him down. 
It was no good. 
He kicked a tiny stone and it bounced off the back of a parking car. 
Nobody saw it. 

 
135 
The fact that all stations showed video footage of the other side made it 
difficult to get rid of the security guards on one end before trying to use 
their guarded booth as an exit. Besides, he couldn’t press the button 
himself. Somebody had to do it from outside. 
Would he really have to continue stealing the normal way? 
He wasn’t the working type. Stealing was his calling. He had perfected 
it a long time ago, yet he always tried to find a new challenge. It kept him 
on his toes. 
“Excuse me,” he said to a young woman, waiting for a bus. 
“Oh!” she exclaimed, and grabbed her black fur hat, trying to keep it on 
her head, as Leonard hurriedly walked between her and a pillar of the 
small bus station. 
Her handbag, hanging from her right shoulder, had been open and 
Leonard - in a swift, elegant motion - had retrieved a purse, while 
deliberately touching the left shoulder. 
He kept marching around the corner of a high-rise building, down a 
few stairs, back up another, and hid in the next park. 
There was a couple strolling past the high trees, an old woman on her - 
assumedly - daily excursion, and a jogger resting on a bench. 
Leonard slowed down to a casual walk and opened the purse, 
pretending it was the property of his - imaginary - wife. 
It helped believing in his own lies - that way people wouldn’t get 
suspicious. 
Twenty Schilling, a worthless ring - probably a luck charm, a photo of a 
teenage girl - maybe the woman ten years ago, and a bottle cap - a 
souvenir of a holiday or a special night. 
He made a content face, as if to say, thank god, all of his wife ’s things 
were still in there - and put it away. 
For all his skills, he kept pulling unnecessary risky stunts like this. 
Twenty Schilling. Definitely not much. 
At least he had made sure to make her stumble a bit, so she couldn ’t 
have gotten a good look at him. 
But anyway. 
The park ended and he took a left turn to the city hall and the 
INSTANT building. 
Yeah, why not, he thought. 
The line of people was fairly short. Leonard queued up. 
Ten minutes later he saw himself inside the building, with only three 
people in front of him. They were asked their destination and sent in the 
correct direction. 
 
136 
Leonard’s turn. 
“Good day, where do you want to travel to this instant?” the woman in 
the blue suit asked, a happy smile plastered on her face. 
“Any place where I don’t have to wait,” Leonard said, as politely as 
possible. He wasn’t much of a charmer when he didn’t concentrate. 
She turned around, checked for vacancies, and faced Leonard again.  
“Vowkinn just departed,” she said. 
Skipping the chit-chat, Leonard went past her. 
Another guard greeted him, a man this time, probably Leonard’s age. 
“Please step inside the glass booth,” he said to Leonard. 
Leonard, now getting a bit nervous by the sight of the alien looking 
machine in front of him, shoved an unsure foot inside, followed by the rest 
of his body. 
He turned around and looked at the guard again. 
“Remain calm at all times, alright?” the guard asked. 
“I’m perfectly calm,” Leonard said. Get me the hell out of here before that 
woman comes in here and calls the cops on my butt, he thought. 
It was a low probability that the woman would walk all the way and 
identify him, but worse things had already happened. 
Like that one time in the fitness studio, when Leonard had- 
The man in the blue space suit closed the glass door, which was pretty 
thin for having to be air tight, Leonard realized. 
“Ready?” the man asked. 
Before Leonard could answer - the button was pressed. 
He was gone. 
His body felt light, almost like air. Like a cloud. He saw nothing at first, 
then... white nothingness. The voices of the travellers faded away, and in 
their stead, a high pitched tone soared through Leonard’s ear drums. 
He tried to move his legs, but there were none attached. He tried to 
look down, but neither was there something to look at, nor was there even 
something to see with. 
He was there, but somewhere else at the same time. 
For at least two hours, he floated, staring at whiteness, a blank shape he 
had never witnessed before. 
There was a black spot that attracted his attention. If he had any sense 
of direction, he would have said the speck was below him. 
A shadow maybe? 
An exit? 
For another few hours, he kept existing, or thinking about existing. A 
blurry line appeared, but then he wasn’t sure, since he didn’t have eyes. 
 
137 
He woke up. 
A hairy male hand stretched out to him. 
“Are you alright, Mister?” a distorted voice said. 
The face looking at Leonard came into focus. 
Leonard disregarded the offered hand and stepped outside of the 
booth. 
Another question was thrown at him. “Are you okay?” 
Of course, he was okay, why wouldn’t he be? Leonard’s face turned 
into an annoyed grimace. 
He began to fully sense his surroundings again. 
Vowkinn. The heart of Lostarichi. A city so grand, it had the status of a 
state. He checked the clock of a distant church tower: Only a minute or so 
had passed since his departure in Taresville. 
People were staring at him and he left the place with the travelling 
booth behind. There wasn’t a big station like in Taresville, rather a tent-
shaped house, but with the same INSTANT logo sitting atop the entrance. 
He had to stop for a second, feel for his forehead and close his eyes. 
He opened them again and looked back at the glass booth. 
What a strange way to travel, he pondered. 
 
138 
 
 
 
“A postcard for you, Walter,” the waiter of the Trimond company 
restaurant said. He placed the card neatly next to Walter’s right hand, 
which was resting there while Walter’s left transported soup with a spoon 
to the scientist’s mouth. 
Walter looked at it. “Thank you,” he said, and the waiter walked away.  
He had told every person to call him by his first name; he couldn’t 
handle all the “Sir this” and “Sir that”. 
His right hand picked up the card, showing mountains, green at the 
bottom, gray in the middle, white at the top. 
He slurped another spoon full of warm spicy water with noodles and 
turned the card around. 
 
“Son, 
sitting in a terrific hotel room in Bellrine. 
Going hiking again in a few minutes. 
Keep up the good work. 
Dad and Mom” 
 
A card written in his father’s handwriting, how... 
Nice? Interesting? 
He put his spoon down and sent out his tongue to chase a noodle stuck 
between his teeth. 
Again, he turned the postcard and imagined himself being there with 
his parents. He had chosen a path for himself. Not their fault. No point in 
being jealous. Or... hateful. 
He was sitting alone in a wide room, surrounded by lots of empty 
tables and chairs. The atmosphere was quite enchanting, with lights placed 
on the walls, a chandelier hanging from the ceiling three meters above 
ground, and piano music caressing Walter’s eardrums. 
He put the postcard back, parallel to the edge of the table. 
Would he rather want to be there? With them? 

 
139 
Or here? 
It was past seven in the evening, but there were no windows showing 
the setting sun. At least, Walter imagined it would be dusk by now. 
He finished his soup quickly and the waiter brought a plate with 
schnitzel, potatoes, rice, two slices of lemon, and a cucumber salad in a 
separate bowl. 
Walter again thanked him, and the man in a black suit disappeared in 
the kitchen. 
For a while he stared at his neatly arranged food, the smell luring his 
senses. Yet he was already full. 
Rick barged into the restaurant. 
“Hello Walter,” he said while walking towards the scientist. 
“Hey,” Walter said in return, and started eating. Can’t show them that I 
don’t have an appetite, he thought. 
Rick sat down opposite to him. “How are you doing? That looks damn 
good,” he said, nodding at the meal. 
“You want some?” Walter said, his cheek harbouring half a potato. 
“I’m good, my wife is waiting for me at home with dinner,” Rick  
declined. 
“The warning was still on the screen an hour ago,” Walter said. “Is 
there a problem in the sewers?” 
He tried not to sound like a dissatisfied king scolding his incompetent 
servant. 
“I actually came here to talk to you about that,” Rick replied. “I 
followed the cables for about half an hour, then I saw a caved in wall, and 
a pipe stuck in the wire.” 
“A pipe?” Walter asked, shoving a piece of breaded meat into his 
mouth. Hunger had finally set in. 
“Yes, it probably used to be inside the wall, a water line or something 
like that, and somehow it must have escaped the wall when it crumbled 
and pierced through the coating of our cable.” 
“Do you really think that’s possible?” It sounded highly unlikely to 
Walter’s ears. I’m sure someone’s behind this... 
“I think so,” Rick said, but Walter saw that he had planted an idea in 
his head. “Now that I think about it, it could’ve been damaged 
deliberately,” Rick admitted. 
“Call the police to check it out, maybe they can find something, 
fingerprints, signs of vandalism, anything that points to an unnatural 
cause for the cave-in.” Walter put a fork full of cucumber salad between 
his teeth and chewed it loudly. 
 
140 
“I’ll do that. Can I use the contact we got from Isela?” 
“Absolutely,” Walter said. 
“Anyway, I need help with the repairs, but I suppose I’ll have to wait 
till after the police examined the place.” 
“Yes, that - or we simply place another cable and connect that to the 
Illsburg line.” Walter ate the last bite of his meat and continued to munch 
away on the last potato and the second rice hill on his plate. 
“You mean - we should use another tunnel?” 
“Look at the map and see if you can,” Walter suggested. “You have all 
the authority over this, act on your own judgement.” 
Rick seemed to falter a bit under the sudden weight of responsibility. 
But Walter didn’t want to deal with that, while he had ideas for wireless 
travelling in his mind. 
“I’ll do that, thanks for your trust,” Rick said. 
“No need to thank me, I know having more responsibility is more of a 
burden.” 
“I can handle it.” Rick folded his arms and looked optimistic. 
“Very well,” Walter said, put his salad bowl on his now empty plate 
and fished for the last cucumber pieces. 
“There’s one other thing I wanted to mention,” Rick continued. 
Something in Rick’s voice made Walter stop eating and look the 
mechanic in the eyes. “What is it?” 
“Before going down into the sewers, I inspected the glass booth in 
Taresville,” Rick said. “I took it apart and, well, it was in best condition. 
Just like my team and I had pieced it together back then.” 
“Ah yes, our teams. Too bad they were only given to us for a year,” 
Walter digressed. “We could always hire more people if you’re 
overwhelmed by the maintenance, you know?” 
“I know, yes. I will get back to you on that later, when I have to repair 
the cable. Now, the insides of the booth were fine - but I found a dead rat.” 
A dead rat? 
Walter recalled all the early tests in his basement. It hadn’t been pretty. 
To Walter’s surprise, Rick produced a folded worker’s glove. 
“I’ve brought it with me,” Rick said, holding the glove in his right 
hand. “You’re eating right now, so I’ll just leave it here on the ground.” 
Walter shook his head. “Don’t worry, it takes a lot to steal my appetite. 
Besides, I’m done anyway.” He licked his lips, shoved the plate with the 
empty bowl on it to his left and stretched out his hand. 
Rick gave him the glove. 
Walter opened it and glanced inside, but it was too dark. 
 
141 
“I’ll take a look at it in my lab.” He had no real laboratory, but what 
else would he call his room where he conducted his research? “Where 
exactly have you found it?” 
“In one of the cooling boxes. Maybe it got in there somehow.” 
“Wasn’t this the glass booth that was originally standing in Monoura?” 
Walter asked. 
Rick thought for a second. “Yes, Illsburg was to be connected first after 
the unveiling in Taresville. And since the booth in Taresville had been 
shot-” 
“We used the one in Monoura in Illsburg,” Walter concluded. 
“Exactly,” Rick said. 
Walter’s thoughts ran wild: It’s definitely the booth I have constructed 
myself in my basement. There were no rats in the warehouse, not even for testing 
purposes. 
Was it the rat that had survived being travelled? 
One cannot be travelled, he heard Isela’s voice in his head. 
He had to examine it closely later and figure out the cause of its death. 
And - if it was indeed the basement rat - why it hadn’t decomposed. 
Although it did emit a terrible stench. 
“What’s up?” Rick asked, and Walter’s mind train grinded to a halt 
with a shriek. 
“I,” Walter said and began his sentence anew. “Thanks for bringing it to 
me.” 
“Don’t mention it,” Rick said. “I’ve actually seen rats caught in cars, 
too. Even cats tend to do that. So, it’s probably no big deal. Besides - it 
wasn’t the rat’s fault that the Illsburg line didn’t work.” 
“Yes, you may be right,” Walter said, staring at the empty bowl next to 
him. 
Rick checked the watch on his arm. “Anyway, I’ve got to run. I’ll take 
the instant back to Monoura.” 
That brought a distorted smile on Walter’s face. 
He’s using it every day, Walter realized. 
“I’ll see or hear you tomorrow,” Rick said, stood up and wished Walter 
a good night, while leaving the restaurant. 
A good night it should be, Walter thought. 
 
142 
 
 
 
Xave parked his car underground, right below the Trimond hotel. There 
were three floors of parking space, enough for forty cars; most of the lots 
were empty, now that the hotel had been transformed into Walter ’s 
headquarters. 
It felt weird, yet strangely exciting to Xave. 
No more of that rundown apartment. Food on the table whenever he 
wanted. Hot shower every time, not whenever it decided to work. Fresh 
clothes. 
He sure had come far. His father would have been proud. 
He got out of his car, locked it up and went to the elevator. 
There he was again. His father. Why did it mean so much to impress his 
deceased old man? 
And why would he never try to imagine his mother’s feedback? 
Wouldn’t she have been proud as well? 
Maybe he hadn’t known her long enough, he realized. There were only 
a handful of images of her in his head, and half of them weren’t memories, 
but photos and a video he hadn’t seen in a long time. 
He entered the elevator when it arrived a few seconds after having 
pressed the button. His finger hovered over the console to his right. 
The restaurant sounded tempting, although he had already eaten 
dinner with the CEO of the Leimer production facilities. Maybe he should 
take a look at the lobby, but at eleven minutes to midnight, only the janitor 
and the receptionist would be around. He wouldn’t know what to talk 
about with them anyway. 
He pressed the button next to the number 10. 
I’ll just go to bed, he thought. 
A repetitive melody accompanied Xave, until the elevator elegantly 
stopped at the tenth floor. 
He stepped out - and Walter startled him. 
“Xave,” Walter said. He looked distressed, although he tried hard to 
contain his excitement. 

 
143 
“What’s wrong, Walter? You look shaken,” Xave said, touching 
Walter’s shoulder. For a moment, the scientist looked like he ’d seen a 
ghost. 
“Come with me,” Walter said simply and went back into the elevator. 
Xave followed him and Walter ordered the elevator to escort them to 
floor 11; the highest storey. 
The elevator doors closed, the mechanical box levitated upwards, a 
high beep signalled their arrival, the doors opened and they got out.  
“Why won’t you just tell me what’s wrong?” Xave persisted. 
“I’ll just show you,” Walter said. 
Walter opened the door to his suite and both went in. 
The room was a disaster, although that wasn’t new. Walter had a 
tendency to spread chaos wherever he lived. There were books scattered 
around, the TV’s view was half-blocked by a weird device that looked like 
a mix between a dishwasher and a radio station of the 60s, the curtains 
shut out the outside world, and Walter’s bed was full of newspapers, both 
large and small, sometimes rumpled and clean, others torn and even 
stacked. 
At the end of the room, right below a window next to the bed, there 
was a desk lamp aimed at the surface it was standing on, showing a 
grotesque scenery involving what seemed to be a rat lying on a sterile ti n 
foil and two metal sticks protruding from its open body. There was no 
blood. 
“What is this, Walter? Are you trying to reanimate rats?” Xave said, 
trying to bring Walter down a notch. 
But the scientist didn’t even hear him. “Look,” he said, pointing at the 
animal cadaver. 
Xave stepped closer and examined the dead rat. 
He expected to see miniature organs in the cleft spread open by the 
metal sticks. But instead of a perfectly well preserved biology example, he 
saw a sickening knot that consisted of organs, tightly tied together. Worst 
of all, they looked fresh, but somehow wrong. 
“I don’t understand, Walter, help me out here,” Xave said. 
“What do you see?” Walter said, cryptically. 
“I see a poor little thing with its insides knit together in a weird 
unsettling way,” Xave observed. 
“That wasn’t me,” Walter said. 
“What do you mean?” 
“I didn’t do that. Rick found this rat inside a cooling box of the glass 
booth that I built in my old house’s basement.” 
 
144 
“You mean this rat’s been in that booth for two years?” Xave felt a 
strange sensation crawling up his back. 
“This is the first rat that survived my travelling experiments,” Walter 
explained. “It went missing afterwards.” 
“Why do you think this is your rat?” 
“I remember what it looked like.” 
“Rats all look the same to me,” Xave said and looked at the opened up 
animal with a tilted head. 
“They don’t, I’ve had more than a dozen and could always tell them 
apart.” Walter’s eyes fixated on Xave’s. “It is my rat!” 
“What does it mean, then? That we’re all going to die because our 
innards snuggle up?” 
“I’ve refined the algorithm twice before Kristella demonstrated it to the 
world,” Walter said, stroking through his hair. “It doesn’t have to mean 
anything.” 
Xave stared at the tiny ball of guts. For a moment, he felt relieved that 
he had never tried it himself. 
“You have never travelled, have you?” Walter asked and Xave felt 
caught. 
The salesman shook his head without meeting Walter’s gaze. 
“Neither have I,” Walter admitted. 
They looked at each other. 
“How can that be?” Xave asked in disbelief. “Don’t tell me you don’t 
trust your own invention.” 
Walter stumbled over a few words before another full sentence formed 
out of his mouth. “I’m not sure. All calculations I’ve ever done resulted in 
green numbers. I’ve been thinking about this for the past few hours. 
Maybe there is an error that only my subconsciousness knows about.”  
Xave had to concentrate hard to understand Walter’s speedy flow of 
syllables. 
“So, you’ve made a mistake?” Xave glared at the scientist. This was 
bad. 
Walter hesitated. Then, his eyes opened wide and Xave felt a cold chill 
when the scientist mumbled: “Maybe it was my destiny to do that. Maybe 
I’m the devil.” 
“To kill a few people?” 
“To kill everyone,” Walter muttered. 
“We can still pull the plug on the project, Walter,” Xave tried to calm 
him down. 
“Maybe we should.” 
 
145 
The watch in Xave’s breast pocket pinched his skin. Never give up 
without a fight, Xave’s father would have said with a raised finger. A 
seemingly impossible challenge simply means you’re on the right track. 
“No, Walter,” Xave said with a firm voice. “We’ll figure this out. Run 
some tests on the rat. Then, when you’ve collected a bunch of data, you call 
Kristella and run similar tests on her. And try to keep her alive.”  
Walter vigorously shook his head. “No, Xave, this has to stop, I can’t let 
my invention be the cause of everyone’s dismay.” 
“Snap out of it, Walter,” Xave said, with an increase in his voice’s 
volume. “I won’t stand here, watching you throw away years of hard 
work, just so someone else can come in and make it his own. So what, a 
rat’s dead. That doesn’t have to mean anything. It was the first successful 
traveller, and you’ve improved it a lot before letting others use it, you said 
so yourself.” 
Walter blinked, but Xave felt sure the scientist was on the verge of 
going crazy. 
“This is difficult, Walter,” Xave continued. “I know that, but please, just 
try. Don’t give up yet. I really believe in your creation. It can and will 
change the world. For the better.” 
Walter shot a bitter look at the rat. “But why hasn’t it decomposed? It 
can’t look like this if it has been dead for two years.” 
“You figure it out, Walter,” Xave said and stabbed a finger into Walter ’s 
shoulder. “If there’s one man that can do this, it’s you.” 
Walter sighed deeply. Xave felt as if a demon had finally let go of the 
scientist’s body. 
“You’re right,” Walter said. “Maybe I just need some sleep.” 
“Definitely,” Xave agreed. “You’re a good man. Don’t forget that.” 
“I’ll try.” 
 
146 
 
 
 
Leonard needed money. 
For two days he had been surviving on stolen food and sleeping on a 
bench in a subway station, trying to look like a passenger who had simply 
fallen asleep waiting. 
But he knew that there was another way. 
He had gotten ahold of an old black hat to hide his unwashed hair, 
which had already begun to reflect the neon lights underground. He had 
obtained chewing gum from a shop that freshened up his breath, and had 
washed his face in public restrooms. 
Large crowds were usually his primary target audience for grand 
acquisitions. Vowkinn was heavily populated, a perfect place for men like 
him. 
Yet there was not only opportunity, there was also risk. 
The more people around, the higher the chance of someone watching 
you steal someone’s properties. He normally preferred smaller actions, but 
he craved a more dignified place with a roof above his head. 
He waited until early morning, resting on a bench in front of subway 
tracks. 
Finally, people started gathering. Leonard opened his eyes and hid his 
face behind the newspaper, which he had found in the trash. His hat 
provided enough status and a certain air of authority to hide his otherwise 
lousy appearance. 
People didn’t notice him at all. 
There were children with sleepy eyes headed for school, stressed men 
and women going to work, elderly people on an adventure to visit their 
doctors or on the hunt for groceries. The hectic surroundings would ’ve 
made it hard for Leonard to concentrate, if his mind hadn’t been a fortress 
of silence, trained to sustain enormous pressure; an accumulated skill 
Leonard was secretly proud of. 
The subway arrived, a long gray worm appearing out of the black hole, 
with a round nose and a dozen cars. 

 
147 
The doors opened. 
Leonard knew exactly what was going to happen: The passengers 
would be trying to get out, while the others would be nervous and slowly 
but steadily push themselves into the car. 
He folded the newspaper, put it aside and stood up. 
Through the opened door in front of him the following persons exited: 
a woman with a short skirt, expensive necklace and watch; a man dressed 
in regular blue jeans and a green shirt; another woman with her baby 
buggy; and two young boys, all facing a dozen other human beings who 
impatiently stood aside. 
Leonard walked in. 
He gently moved through the scenery, hidden from all eyes, barely 
touching anyone or anything. Like a shadow, he appeared to the right, 
then vanished and resurfaced inside the subway car, amidst all the other 
passengers. 
While five or six people were still trying to get out, others had already 
started to ignore them and formed a line streaming inward. 
The car filled up and Leonard was now trapped between four backs, 
two of them male with broad shoulders. 
The doors closed after the exchange of people was complete, and the 
subway drove off. 
Leonard’s pockets felt heavier already, but he wasn’t done yet. It would 
take approximately one or two minutes before they reached the next 
station. Leonard tried to relax. Nobody in here had been his victim yet; 
only the ones that had left the car earlier. And they were at least two miles  
away already. 
“Tickets, please,” a low man’s voice resounded to Leonard’s right. 
Now there was something he hadn’t thought of: An employee of the 
train staff persistent enough to squeeze through dozens of bodies and 
check their tickets. 
Leonard’s poker face showed slight discomfort. 
“Tickets, please,” the voice continued, like a stampede roaring towards 
Leonard. 
He could see the man now. He wore a dark red uniform and a hat of 
the same color with a golden chain hanging from left to right. 
Their eyes met, but there were still another five people between them. 
Leonard waited for the inspector to check another ticket for validity - 
then he ducked slightly and pushed through the two male backs to his left.  
 
148 
“Excuse me, that’s my exit,” Leonard said, trying to veil his tension 
with a layer of charm, while he dug through the slightly annoyed human 
bodies. 
“Watch it,” a woman said, as Leonard stepped on her toes. 
A speaker in the ceiling announced the next station’s name. 
Leonard was now right in front of the sliding doors and saw the softly 
illuminated black rocks of the tunnel through the glass. 
“Tickets, please - thank you,” the inspector repeated. 
The subway slowly stopped and the doors slid apart. Leonard walked 
outside with wide steps, through the waiting crowd in front of him. 
He marched for a few seconds and slowed down a bit, catching his 
breath. His pockets were now filled to the rim with random valuables, 
including a wallet, a bracelet, a watch, concert tickets, a sealed condom, a 
bottle cap, and a Swiss Army knife. 
The subway drove away, and so did his victims. 
Leonard was safe. 
A hand touched his shoulder. 
“I believe you have something from me,” a male voice said. 
Leonard turned around. 
A man, roughly twenty-five years old, was standing there with a broad 
grin, his hair neatly combed to the side, his white shirt beaming of 
cleanliness, his brown trousers wide, but not unfitting, his shoes 
shimmering in a blue hue. 
“What are you talking about? I’m late for work and I don’t have time 
for your childish games,” Leonard said, playing the thundering boss of a 
worldwide company. And I’m using the subway to get to work like a regular 
employee… Well, maybe the company’s credo involved saving the planet. 
Leonard turned on his heel, and made for the stairs, leading up and 
outside. 
Yet again, the hand held him back. 
“You’re good,” the young lad said. “What do you think about me?” 
“What the devil are you blabbering about?” Leonard fumed. Then he 
looked at the man’s palm, showing Leonard the Swiss Army knife. 
How did that get out of his pocket? It must have fallen out. Somehow. 
“Are you threatening me with your knife?” Leonard asked, choosing 
the safe route of trusting nobody. “I’ll be on my way now. Maybe you 
should return home and rethink your actions. And let your mother spank 
some sense into you.” 
“You stole the knife from me,” the guy insisted, with a cheerful tone. 
“We could use someone like you.” 
 
149 
“What do you mean, use someone like me? I have got to get to the 
office, now let go of me.” 
“You can’t fool me, I’m the same as you. You’re alone too, right? Did 
you lose your parents?” 
Leonard held his breath. In a split second, long forgotten memories 
crawled up the cliffs from deep below. He shook his head and kicked them 
back down again, only to get injured by their claws. 
“I didn’t lose my parents, you idiot,” Leonard shot back, but with less 
force now. 
“Whatever you say,” the man replied and put the knife away. “So, are 
you coming or not?” 
“Coming? I told you, I...” 
“To our hideout. We’re only a small group of six and we definitely 
manage, but with you tagging along, we could live like kings! Or 
landlords, at least.” 
Leonard’s mind constructed a hundred complex excuses, while his 
mouth simply said: “Fine.” 
 
150 
 
 
 
It took them over half an hour to reach the hideout using two different 
buses. They hadn’t talked, except for Leonard inquiring about the 
estimated time of arrival every now and then, and about his companion ’s 
name, which turned out to be Mardo. 
They were standing in front of a building, which looked like all the 
others surrounding them, except that the windows weren’t intact and the 
door looked like an improvisation, a bundle of wooden beams held 
together by a thick chain and a heavy lock. 
The district they were in felt average, Leonard noticed. Certainly not 
poor, but definitely on the verge. He suspected that this wasn’t the only 
forsaken building. 
“Is that the entrance?” Leonard pointed at the provisory door. 
“No, that’s our fridge,” Mardo said. 
“What?” 
“I’m joking, it’s just a distraction. There’s a wall behind the wood.” 
“A distraction? What for?” 
“For those trying to find shelter. They see that there’s no coming in 
here,” Mardo explained. 
“That doesn’t make a lot of sense to me,” Leonard said. 
“The entrance is over here.” Mardo walked to the right side of the 
building into an alley, a tight hallway between the two snuggling 
buildings. 
Leonard followed him hesitantly. He could be walking into an ambush.  
Mardo dug his arms into a hill of black waste bags, the stench of which 
was attracting hundreds of flies. Leonard’s nose didn’t really care, it was 
used to much worse. 
The stranger kneeling in front of Leonard gasped as his hands found 
something to hold on to. 
Mardo opened a small metal door with a dozen plastic bags stuck to it.  
“Is this your secret entrance?” Leonard scoffed. 

 
151 
“Yes, make sure nobody sees you, then follow me,” Mardo said and 
jumped down. 
Leonard looked around. Except for an old crone across the street, he 
saw nobody. Against his better judgement, he walked towards the square 
hole and let himself fall into it. 
Although, he didn’t fall far. He was standing, but his upper body still 
showed out of the hole. 
“Come down here,” Mardo said, dragging Leonard by his collar down 
a small set of stairs into the dark, closing the door after him. 
Mardo held up a burning candle on a plate; it was the only light source 
now. 
“Follow me,” he said. 
Leonard waited for Mardo to walk past him like a ducked geezer and 
went after him in the same posture. 
The air was thick and the stench had found its way inside. The walls 
were made out of crudely piled red bricks. Leonard’s feet stepped on dry 
earth and his head had to dodge several wooden planks. 
“Have you dug this tunnel yourself?” Leonard asked, evading a spider 
web. 
“No,” Mardo said. 
They arrived at another opening. Mardo knocked three times in a row 
on the metal grid and pushed it aside with a loud shriek. 
“Well, well. Look who’s coming home,” a woman said. 
“Hey, sis,” Mardo greeted the person when he was out of Leonard’s 
view. 
Leonard crawled out as well and stretched his back. 
“Who’s that?” This time it was a masculine voice. Leonard felt the 
sharp blade of a knife against his throat. 
Only now he could make out the whole room. It was rather small, the 
walls consisted of the same bricks as the tunnel, only the floor was made 
out of wood instead of dirt. In the far right corner, there were stairs 
spiralling upwards to the second floor. Two round tables were standing in 
the center, with cups of beer and piles of cards on their surfaces and two 
persons sitting at each of them, playing what appeared to be poker or 
something similar. A bunch of racks had been nailed to the walls and filled 
with books, wine, food and other stuff. Mardo was standing next to one of 
the tables and the man keeping Leonard at bay still towered behind him.  
“Calm down, I’m with Mardo,” Leonard said, slightly raising both of 
his hands. 
 
152 
“Yes, he’s with me, I caught him stealing my knife. And I barely noticed 
it, he’s damn good!” Mardo said. 
“No outsiders!” the man behind Leonard yelled. The blade scratched 
against Leonard’s unshaven skin. 
“I came here with no intentions of harming you, no weapons, only 
good will - and this is what I get?” Leonard said. 
“He’s with the police! Undercover, I can smell it!” the man continued. 
“Stop it, Bellward,” the woman from before commanded. 
Bellward hesitated. “But...” 
“No buts!” the woman yelled, stood up and stomped the ground.  
While still keeping pressure on the knife, Bellward took a step forward, 
into Leonard’s field of vision, looked hard into his eyes - and released him. 
Leonard felt for his throat and stepped away from Bellward. 
“I shouldn’t be here,” Leonard said and turned around. 
“Well, you’re here already,” the woman said. Leonard looked at her. 
She was in her late thirties, wearing a red dress. “My name is Verayne,”  
she continued. “This is Marla.” 
Leonard nodded at a younger and also less beautiful young woman 
next to Verayne. 
“Over there’s Chawlee, my husband,” Verayne said. 
A man as round as a barrel, with half his hair gone and wrinkles on his 
cheeks and forehead, raised and lowered his hand. 
“And finally, Timony,” Verayne concluded. 
With a short wave, Leonard greeted the thin as a stick lad. 
“And you are?” Verayne asked. 
“Leonard.” 
“Leonard, who?” 
He hesitated. “Just Leonard.” 
She nodded knowingly. “Welcome to the club,” she said. “Take a seat.” 
There were another four empty chairs left and Leonard took the one 
across Verayne. Mardo sat down next to him and Bellward chose one on 
the other table, starting to mumble something to Verayne’s husband. 
“You’re good, I hear?” Verayne said. 
“He is,” Mardo added. 
“Good at what?” Leonardo asked. 
“Stealing! I’ve no clue what else you’re good at,” Verayne said, 
chuckling. 
“Cut it out, you,” Chawlee intervened, but with his mouth stretched to 
a smile. 
Verayne gave him a playful wink. 
 
153 
“I saw him stealing various items from several different people on the 
subway,” Mardo’s praise went on. “I only noticed because I was reaching 
for the toothpick from my knife. Leonard was quick, I felt absolutely 
nothing.” 
Leonard didn’t know how to respond. All his life he had told himself 
that everything he did to survive was a bad thing. Of course, killing had 
never been an option, but forcing items into his possession from other 
people surely had negatively affected at least one person’s quality of life. 
And now, he was receiving praise for it? The world had turned upside 
down without him being notified about it. 
“How long have you been living in Vowkinn?” Verayne asked.  
“I just arrived here a few days ago using that new instant travelling 
machine,” Leonard said. 
“Ah,” Verayne said. “So you’ve tried it. What is it like?” 
“Yeah, I’m interested in that as well,” Chawlee said, his belly trying to 
burst out of the shirt. 
“You haven’t tested it? You can always try it out for yourselves, it’s 
completely free,” Leonard remarked. 
“Yes, we know,” Mardo said. “We just weren’t sure if it really worked. 
It sounded... too new.” 
“I think I know what you mean,” Leonard said, slowly warming up to 
his surroundings. “I took the train to Taresville just to have a look a t it. I 
thought it would create new opportunities for...” 
“Your job?” Chawlee said. 
A job. Leonard had never thought about his actions as an occupation.  
And - he didn’t want to start calling it that. 
It represented his means to an end, something he was goo d at, but he 
definitely wouldn’t start calling it a job. That would mean contributing to 
society, when instead he felt more like a leech. 
A small leech that probably didn’t hurt that much, but a leech none the 
less. 
Leonard decided to ignore Chawlee’s words. “But after using it to send 
myself to Vowkinn, I’ve come to the conclusion that it’s not ready yet. It’s 
really quick, though. I don’t exactly know how far apart Vowkinn and 
Taresville are, but I’ve lost no more than a minute.” 
They all mumbled something to each other in excitement. 
“That’s incredible! But why do you think we shouldn’t use it to our 
advantage yet?” Verayne asked. 
Bellward scoffed at the idea and folded his arms. “Why should we even 
consider it? We’re better off without fancy tech.” 
 
154 
“Hear, hear,” Timony said and raised his cup of beer. 
“You say that again and I’ll cut the power to this house,” Verayne 
threatened. 
Bellward shut up. 
“There are too few booths around right now with too many people 
using it,” Leonard said, disregarding Bellward. “It would draw too much 
attention. The security is also pretty tight.” 
“Fine then,” Verayne said. 
For an awkward moment, nobody spoke. Leonard broke the silence and 
stood up. 
“Well,” he said. “I’ll be leaving now. I seem to be bringing disturbance 
to this fine ensemble.” He looked at Bellward. “And I have no intentions of 
disrupting peace.” 
“Don’t be a fool, Leonard,” Verayne said, standing up as well. “Come 
here, have a drink. Let’s play cards and share some stories. If you survive 
this night - why not join us? You seem like a lonely fellow.” 
Lonely he was, he thought. But - by choice. Being alone had a certain 
benefit. 
It was warm in here though, and Leonard’s stomach could hardly resist 
drink and food that was offered to him willingly. 
Besides, he could always find a way to escape and carry some more 
valuables with him. 
He nodded and sat down again. “What are we playing?” 
 
155 
 
 
 
The cemetery in Taresville always reminded Xave of the day his mother 
had died. 
It had been snowing; his mother, dressed in comfortable gray clothes 
and sitting next to him on his bed, had been reading a book to six-year-old 
Xave in her beautiful, soothing voice. 
“The woman said to the boy: ‘Are you blind?’ The boy kept staring at 
the numbers above the woman’s head, which - ironically - only he could 
see.” 
Then - she had looked at him strangely. Her eyes filled with a certain 
kind of sadness, emptiness and fear. She had held onto him, touched his 
cheek and his little hands. 
She had stopped breathing and fallen off the edge of the bed. 
The doctors would diagnose a thrombosis later on. 
Xave never brought flowers. His mother hadn’t seemed to care much 
for them, and his father had never believed in them either. It would 
honour him more if Xave brought a million Schilling every visit and buried 
it with his corpse. Then his father would say: “I’m proud of you. Now go 
get the next million.” 
The two stones of his parents rested next to each other, their graves 
topped with nothing but brown earth. Xave used to water it, but the rain 
usually took care of it. His parents were simple beings, and yet they had 
instilled more ambition into his mind than he could handle. 
“Why do you never bring flowers?” Kristella’s voice cut through Xave’s 
thoughts. 
He turned around and saw her approaching. “How did you know I was 
here?” 
“You told me once that you visited your parents’ grave every Friday, 
for your mother had passed away on a Friday and your father had stuck to 
the same tradition ever since,” Kristella recalled. 
“I don’t remember telling you,” Xave said. 
“You don’t remember a lot of things,” Kristella said. She walked 

 
156 
around him and knelt down to the two graves, touching the earth. 
“Wouldn’t they love it if something blossomed here?” 
“They never liked flowers. I think my mother even was allergic to 
them.” 
“How can a woman not like the sight of blooming nature?” Kristella 
asked, standing up again. 
“My mother wasn’t part of that stereotype,” Xave replied. Neither was 
his father, he thought. 
“I’m sorry,” Kristella said. 
“Don’t be, I suppose it does look a bit bleak,” Xave admitted. “I wish I 
could erect a palace right on top of them. That would show how dear they 
were to me.” 
“Well, you’ve got the money. Buy the cemetery and start building!” 
Xave had to smile at the thought of plastering away all those other 
worthless final resting places and dropping a giant golden palace on top of 
his parents’ remains, just to show everyone how great they had been. 
“You know,” he said. “I do all of this for them, especially for my 
father.” 
“I know,” Kristella said. “I’ve heard you say that a few times. Your 
father was a businessman just like you.” 
“Exactly, well, not like me. He was better.” 
“You’ve made it into history books,” Kristella pointed out. “Your father 
may have done some great things in his time - like bringing you into this 
world - but this, this whole deal with instant travelling, I think even your 
father would proudly admit that his son has outgrown him.”  
“I don’t want to think like that,” Xave said, staring at the earth covering 
his father. “Life shouldn’t be a race to the top. Too much risk of missing 
things.” 
“Maybe so,” Kristella said. 
A minute passed, as they both watched the two graves in silence, 
completely forgetting about the other dozen graves surrounding them.  
The humid spring air brought sweat pearls to Xave’s forehead and he 
wiped them away with his sleeve. He checked his watch. 
“I have an appointment with another possible factory partner,” he 
mumbled. 
The last one still hadn’t returned his call. Xave wasn’t surprised after 
the suspicious looks on the CEO’s face all evening long. 
“Why did you come here?” Xave asked. “Couldn’t you just have waited 
back at the hotel?” 
“It’s a nice day. Besides, I have something important to tell you,” 
 
157 
Kristella said. 
“Spit it out, then.” 
“Isela’s assistant called me an hour ago. The exclusivity deal with 
Taresville and Bellrine has been agreed upon by all sides.” 
Xave looked at her, then back to his parents. “What’s that, father? Yes, 
you’re right. She’s awesome,” he said and grinned at Kristella. 
“Stop it,” Kristella said shyly. 
“Have you told Walter already?” Xave asked. 
“No, he wouldn’t answer the door, I kept knocking for maybe five 
minutes and everyone at the hotel assured me that Walter was in his 
room.” 
“Hm,” Xave said. 
He’d have to talk to him again about the dead rat. It was bringing a lot 
of concern to his scientist friend. 
Friend... When did business become a private matter? 
“How are you feeling?” Xave asked for reasons he would rather not 
share at the moment. 
“Oh, I’m fine, extremely excited about the new agreement,” Kristella 
replied. “Slowly but steadily, we’ll take over the world! And then I can 
finally send my mother to Ireland for breakfast and a walk along the 
shores, and have her back for dinner.” 
“Take over the world?” Xave repeated. “You make it sound like  an 
invasion.” 
“You taught me to think in battle plans, war strategy and missions,” 
Kristella defended herself, poking his shoulder and pouting. 
“Maybe it’s time you developed your own salesman jargon,” Xave 
suggested with a hint of jest. 
“I like taking over the world, what’s wrong about it? It’s not like we’re 
doing anything bad,” Kristella said. 
Xave bit his lip. He decided to ignore that and waved his parents good 
bye. “I’ll see you next Friday,” he mumbled. 
They left the cemetery behind and walked to Xave’s car. 
“Should I drop you off somewhere?” Xave asked Kristella over the car’s 
roof while unlocking the doors. 
“Let’s go talk to Walter,” she said, opened the door and sat down 
inside. 
Xave looked around. A bus passed his car with a large advertisement 
printed on it in blue letters: “Travel LIGHT - Travel INSTANT” 
“Sure,” he muttered to himself, and sat down behind the steering 
wheel. 
 
158 
 
 
 
“We’re ready to go,” Kristella said to Walter, who was sitting at his table, 
hastily working on something. “Isela has made preparations to connect 
Taresville with Bellrine.” 
The suite looked more chaotic than last time, she realized after a quick 
observation. 
Walter had only opened the door because of Xave. It felt strange, as if 
he were trying to exclude her. Weren’t they starting to become better 
friends? Maybe more? 
Walter certainly appeared fragile right now, and Kristella had to 
suppress her urge to just hug him. Over the years they had grown quite 
fond of each other and Walter’s attitude towards her had changed for the 
better. Even Kristella’s mother had already poked fun at her for constantly 
talking about him. 
But was there a man inside that scientist? She wasn’t sure. Besides, her 
affection towards him mainly originated from the fact that he seemed a bit 
helpless to her sometimes. 
“Walter?” Xave said. 
“Hang on,” were Walter’s first words ever since Xave and Kristella had 
walked in. 
What was he doing? Kristella stepped on her toes and leaned to the 
right to catch a glimpse. Walter was about to cover something up with  a 
plastic bag; it looked like - a dead rat? She had only seen it for a split 
second, but it certainly had looked strange. 
Walter turned around. 
He looked devastated, Kristella realized a little shocked. His eyes were 
carried by dark rings and covered with red veins, his mouth looked bitter 
and his hair, longer than usual, sprang out of his head like a fountain.  
“Are you alright?” Kristella asked. 
“Perfectly fine,” Walter replied. “Late night research. You’ve been there 
with me before, remember?” 

 
159 
She did remember a few nights on the sofa in the warehouse. Walter 
had sometimes stayed up all night, cursing and yelling in the back, until he 
had finally found a solution and she had been able to get some sleep in the 
late morning. He was an ambitious perfectionist, a character trait she 
respected. 
“Did you hear what she said to you?” Xave asked him. 
Walter looked at Kristella with an emotionless face. “I’m sorry, could 
you repeat it?” 
“The Taresville and Bellrine connection has been greenlit,” Kristella 
summarized. “On Isela’s authority.” 
“Ah,” Walter said. “Very well.” 
“What’s wrong?” Kristella asked. “You’re hiding something.” 
Xave turned to her. “He’s just tired, I mean, look at him! A zombie 
looks more endearing.” 
Walter shot a sharp look at Xave. “Charming,” he said. 
“When can we start working on the new connection?” Xave asked. 
“I...” Walter looked behind him on the table, where he had covered 
something. 
“What’s that, anyway?” Kristella asked. 
“Research,” Walter answered quickly. 
“May I see it?” 
“It’s just a rat,” Walter said, with a dismissive gesture. “I’ve looked at 
its innards after a few tests.” 
“You’re testing on rats again?” Kristella grew suspicious. 
“Yes, sometimes it’s necessary to take living, breathing things into the 
equation.” 
Xave stepped in. “Especially when it’s for the safety of our clients,” he 
said. 
Kristella looked at the covered mysterious animal on the table. “You 
just seem so secretive about it,” she said. 
“Don’t worry, Kristella,” Xave said and faced Walter again. “I’m in 
talks with another factory, they seem optimistic. All I need are the design 
documents you promised.” 
“Oh,” Walter said, distracted. “Yes, I suppose I should focus my 
attention on those for the moment.” 
“Then I’ll tell Isela that we’ll be ready in what, two weeks, three weeks? 
A month?” Kristella asked. 
 
160 
Xave answered: “Isela has provided us with some laborers before, ask 
her if that’s possible again, we can pay them ourselves this time. I ’ll look at 
the map and figure out a first draft of the connection route. When we have  
a team of ten people at our disposal, we can start laying out the cables. The 
glass booth production should commence at the same time.” 
Walter sat down on the chair in front of his covered experiment. He 
really looked like a person in dire need of sleep, Kristella thought. 
“You, my friend,” Xave said to Walter and walked towards him. 
“You’re going to bed. When you’ve slept at least five hours, you’ll knock 
on my door and go over my plans for the wire. Is that clear?” 
Walter looked at him with something in his eyes that Kristella had a 
hard time reading. Worry maybe? 
“You’re right,” Walter said, stood up and, in one tired motion, sat 
down on the left side of his bed like a broken old man. “I expect the world 
to look brighter by the time I return from the dead.” 
Now Kristella was really concerned about the scientist’s well-being. 
Xave put his hand on Kristella’s back and gently nudged her to leave 
the room. 
She hesitated, then turned around and led the way. 
 
161 
 
 
 
At almost exactly 5 a.m., an apparently drunk figure ascended the few 
stairs in front of the Trimond company. With one arm held tightly against 
the belly, the man banged on the glass of the entrance door. After the fifth 
time, he slid down to the ground as if defeated. 
The interior of Walter’s hotel was dimly lit and there were only a 
handful of security guards doing their rounds. One had seen the man out 
front and was already on his way. He unlocked the front door, opened it 
and the man, whose upper half had been leaning against the glass, 
basically landed in front of his feet. 
“Get your drunken ass off the stairs,” the security guard said in a deep 
calm voice. 
“Walter,” the man gasped. “I need to speak... to Walter.” 
“And who might you be?” the guard asked, expecting no convincing 
reply. 
“Tell him...” the man said, trying to stand up by pushing himself away 
from the ground with his left arm only. “Tell him, it’s Jeremy.” 
 
Walter, of course, was not asleep when his telephone rang. 
He was sitting at his desk next to his bed. The rat was still covered, and 
there were several sheets of paper scattered in front of him, all containing 
as many words as possible, all covering different theories of the rat’s 
failure to succumb to one of nature’s firmest rules. 
The phone rang again. 
Walter stood up, walked to the other side of the bed and grabbed the 
receiver of the annoying white plastic communication device. 
“Yes?” 
“Mr. Trimond, there’s a man in the lobby who wants to see you. He 
seems to be drunk, or in pain, or both. His name’s Jeremy,” a male voice 
said. 
Sometimes Walter wondered how security could work with so many 
people he didn’t even know personally. Whom could he really trust? 

 
162 
“Jeremy?” Walter repeated. 
“Yes, that’s who he claims to be. Wasn’t Jeremy your first test subject?” 
The guard had done his homework, Walter thought. Or - he was just 
blessed with a good memory. It had been all over the news back then, 
anyway. 
“Does he have any passport or other means of assuring us he’s telling 
the truth and not some kind of freak who wants to assassinate me, you 
know, like in the past?” Walter said. 
“No,” the guard answered. “But he does look familiar to me, if that 
helps you. Besides, if he’s acting to be in pain, he’s pretty good. I’ll just 
take him to you upstairs and keep an eye on him.” 
“Alright,” Walter agreed and hung up. 
He took a quick glance around his stuffy room, shrugged, and went 
outside into the hall. 
Xave was probably sound asleep in his suite and not much help right 
now anyhow. 
Walter pulled back his hair, which had grown quite a bit the last two 
years, and rubbed his eyes. It actually felt good, being outside his room for 
a minute, stretching his arms and legs. 
Down the hall, the elevator’s bell announced the arrival of the guests 
and Walter shot a look in its direction. 
The security guard, acting tough, marched towards Walter with a 
sinister grimace, grabbing Jeremy’s right arm firmly and basically 
dragging him along. 
“Is that Jeremy?” the guard asked, once all three persons were facing 
each other. 
Walter scanned the stranger’s face with his brain’s facial recognition 
software and nodded. 
The guard helped Jeremy take a seat on one of the soft chairs in the 
hallway. 
“I’ll return to my post,” the uniformed man announced, and with that 
he withdrew back into the elevator. 
“Jeremy - what are you doing here?” Walter said, crouching down in 
front of him. 
Jeremy’s face almost made it painful to look at him, such an amount of 
inner agony it portrayed. 
“Walter,” Jeremy said, panting. “It hurts so bad. I didn’t know where 
else to go.” 
“You didn’t try going to a doctor or a hospital?” Walter asked, checking 
Jeremy’s eyes by opening them up wide with two fingers each.  
 
163 
Jeremy giggled, followed by another gasp. He pushed Walter aside and 
held both his arms in front of him. “I really don’t believe this is something 
they could cure. It feels...” He pressed his eyelids together to withstand 
another wave of pain. “It feels... strange.” 
“Where exactly does it hurt?” Walter asked, leaning left and right to try 
and find a visible source for the pain. 
“Here,” he said, and drew a large circle between his chest and groin 
with both his hands. 
There was a moment of silence as Walter grasped what was probably 
going on. 
Probably - or quite possibly. 
Walter folded his arms and stood up straight. 
“Well?” Jeremy asked, his mouth askew, his eyes pleading. 
“I have a theory,” Walter admitted. 
A theory that involves Jeremy’s death in a few hours and a rat lying on 
Walter’s desk. 
A rat that just won’t disappear. 
“How is that theory going to help me? Are you going to kill me?” 
Jeremy said, each word strained and half-whispered. He dug his hands 
deep inside his belly in response to another pang. 
Walter stood there as if made out of stone, trying to think. 
“Is it because I...” Jeremy said, his forehead dripping sweat pearls. “Is it 
because I was the first to...” 
“To travel,” Walter continued. “I’m afraid so, yes.” 
“Glad to be of service, then,” Jeremy replied. 
Then he threw up a river of blood and vomit. 
Walter jumped back too far and hit his head on the wall. He didn ’t lose 
consciousness, but it did make him sit down for a second and rub his hair 
with both hands. 
Jeremy, now done with his terrifying ordeal, fell from the chair and left 
his body lying there in his own fluids, his mouth still dripping a vile 
mixture of blood and something else. 
Walter got ahold of himself, leaned forward and checked Jeremy’s 
pulse on his right upper hand. 
Still alive. 
The scientist stumbled to his feet, ran to his room and called security. “I 
need two men up here in the next five seconds. Jeremy collapsed.” 
 
164 
 
 
 
“There he is, the stud of all studs,” a young female voice proclaimed, 
adding a playful laugh afterwards. 
She was part of a small group of teenagers, three girls and two boys. 
They all had the most diverse hairstyles, the girls wore tempting skirts and 
revealing tops, and they all held at least one bottle of beer in their hands. 
The boys clanked their beers and whistled loudly through the warm 
nightly air. 
“You guys are going to get me into trouble,” the guard standing in 
front of the instant travelling device said as he got approached by the girl 
who had just verbally highlighted his masculinity. He looked to his side, a 
little embarrassed. 
“Oh, come on,” the girl flirted and flung her arms around the guard’s 
neck. 
The alleged stud was twenty-nine years old, definitely too old to be 
dating that delicate lady in front of him. And he felt awkward for actually 
being aroused by the touch of her young skin. 
“So, you do remember me?” the girl said. 
“Of course,” the guard said with a red face and a smirk. “You’re Trina.” 
“Awww, isn’t he sweet?” Trina said to the rest of the group who all 
cheered in response. 
After the clapping and whooping stopped, the couple of the group 
started kissing, adding to the guard’s discomfort. 
“Well,” Trina continued, almost touching the guard’s nose with hers. 
“You see those two having fun over there?” She pointed at the smooching 
boy and girl in her group. 
“I see them,” the guard said, but looking away instantly. He smelled 
the alcohol from the young mouth in front of him. 
She took another sip. “They wanna do it,” Trina said, with a daring, 
almost lusty expression, punctuated by yet another innocent giggle. 
The guard tried to dismiss the sexual allure of a teenager who doesn ’t 
yet really know when or how to appropriately wield it. 

 
165 
“Look,” he said, gently removing her arms from his body. 
“Aw, come on, Patrigg,” Trina groaned. 
“Now you listen to me,” Patrigg continued to try and defuse the 
situation. 
The other four teenagers behind Trina booed. 
“Just this once?” Trina said with the sweetest, bone melting tone, and 
the most endearing flash of her eyelashes. 
The group began chanting Patrigg’s name. 
The guard stood there feeling uneasy, hoping nobody would see him 
having such a hard time controlling an adolescent group. 
“You said that last time,” Patrigg said. “What if something happens?” 
“Nothing happened,” Trina said. “I’m still here, am I not?” 
“Where is your boyfriend? The guy you brought along last time?” 
Patrigg said, still trying to stay calm while the group kept shouting his 
name. 
“Well, duh,” she said. “I broke up with him! He was almost as boring 
as you! But definitely not as sexy!” 
“Shut up already!” Patrigg shouted at the group behind Trina. 
Somebody must have already noticed the noise they made and he was sure 
he saw the lights go on in one of the houses across the street. 
They all calmed down. Trina grinned and kissed Patrigg on his cheek.  
“Yeah, yeah, now get going.” Patrigg waved them all towards the booth 
standing behind him, the INSTANT logo atop of it lighting up the 
surrounding area in a bright blue. 
He took a step back, let the adolescent couple walk towards the 
travelling device and picked up the receiver of a phone which was 
attached to the right side of the base part of the construction. 
“Glothermines, this is Mienz,” Patrigg said. “I’ve got another couple 
coming up.” He paused and listened. “Yeah, I know. - Yeah, we talked 
about it last time. - Come on, dude.” He paused again. “Yeah, I owe you 
another round.” He casually kicked a little stone on the ground off into the 
dark, where it landed in the grass. “Yeah, five in total. Call me if there’s 
trouble.” He hung up. 
The boy went in first, his hair a - probably purposely - mess of black 
dye, then he struck out his hand to his loved one. It was an awkward 
gesture, as if he was copying a scene from a movie involving a couple. His 
girlfriend stepped up to him and squeezed into the glass booth with him. 
Their clothes pressed tightly against the inside glass. Their faces showed 
excitement and repressed fear. 
 
166 
The other three teenagers, including Trina, were standing a meter 
away, clapping and cheering at them. 
Patrigg sighed and closed the translucent lid of the booth. He had to 
lean against it a bit to lock it up, the girl’s right arm now stuck between her 
body and the material of the contraption. The skin was distorted, and it 
was so tight both of the teens inside seemed to be having a harder time 
breathing now. They tried to cover up their anxiety and started kissing. It 
all looked like a vial grotesquely filled with human parts, with only the 
heads being able to move by themselves. 
Patrigg shook his head disapprovingly and pressed a button on the 
console next to the booth. A short bright light and an ear-stroking hum 
appeared - and the couple disappeared. 
Trina and her friends applauded and drank from their bottles. 
“Oooh,” Trina mourned. “I know exactly how they’re feeling right 
now.” She closed her eyes and threw her arms up high, the bottle in her 
left hand. “They’re like one being, their hearts beat in unison, their minds 
think the same thoughts, they’re floating, they’re above the world.” 
The other girl said: “You’re making me jealous.” 
“Try it!” Trina encouraged them. “It even lasts a few hours. This 
amazing... feeling,” she said, tilting her head. 
Patrigg buried his face in his palm. 
“With you?” the girl asked, pointing at Trina. 
“Why not with me?” the boy suggested with a broad smile. 
“You’re not my boyfriend!” she said, laughing. 
“Not yet, anyway!” he said. 
“Oh, you,” Trina said, boxing the boy’s left shoulder. 
“Come on, Angee, let’s do it!” Trina said to the girl. 
“Yay!” Angee said and jumped. 
The phone rang and Patrigg - relieved to have a distraction - answered: 
“Yeah?” 
As he looked at Trina with the receiver held to his right ear, the 
expression in his face changed disturbingly. 
Trina sensed the sinister air around Patrigg’s eyes. Her smile froze. 
 
167 
 
 
 
A mere four hours later, Kristella was standing in the entrance hall of the 
INSTANT headquarters with a dozen microphones shoved in her face, 
held by equally as many reporters, yelling questions that only arrived at 
Kristella’s ears as one long distorted blaring noise. 
“Please,” she interrupted the chaos surrounding her with raised hands. 
“I can’t understand what you are saying!” 
The flood of gibberish didn’t stop, though, so Kristella sighed and 
started to concentrate on one female reporter and try to hear the words her 
mouth was forming. 
“Ms. Attenburg, what is Mr. Trimond’s comment on the incident of last 
night?” the reporter seemed to say according to Kristella’s best guess. Even 
if it actually differed - she was sure everybody’s question kind of 
resembled it. So she just went with it. 
“Mr. Trimond was deeply shocked when he heard about the incident. 
He wanted me to reiterate that our booths are designed to function with 
one person only, and we will take extra effort to reinforce that rule 
amongst our staff,” Kristella said. She almost couldn’t hear her own voice, 
and the repeated flashlights and the light of the cameras pointed at her 
made her feel a little dizzy. 
She was used to a lot, but this was a new level. 
“Will Mr. Trimond make certain that the parents of the deceased 
teenagers receive adequate compensation for pain and suffering?” was 
another question Kristella’s ears - probably - filtered out of the storm of 
words. 
Well, will they? Kristella wasn’t sure. In fact, she hadn’t talked to Walter 
at all yet since the deaths of the teenagers. Everything she said now would 
be held true later on. She decided to tread carefully. 
“Mr. Trimond hasn’t made any announcement yet on the topic of 
financial support for the affected families,” she answered.  
A few voices calmed down now. Kristella was on the right track to 
answer the most pressing questions. 

 
168 
But it was far from over. 
“Is it true that Mr. Trimond wants to study the molten remains of the 
teenagers?” a male reporter asked. 
That sounded a little like Walter, Kristella thought bewildered, trying 
not to show her surprise. In fact, it would probably yield a bunch of 
valuable results that could help improve the overall functionality.  
But it was still gross and inhuman. 
“I think it’s safe to say that Mr. Trimond – as a scientist – would be 
interested in inspecting the remains. Nothing like this has ever happened 
before, as you all know,” Kristella said. “However, both families have the 
last word on that topic.” She sighed inside, thinking of the question well 
answered. 
She wondered whether the multi-coloured microphones would transfer 
a whole lot of static noise because they touched each other constantly.  
A woman’s voice rose above the others: “Why can’t Mr. Trimond be 
here for a minute and show himself?” 
Ah, an easy one, Kristella thought. “As I said before, this tragedy has 
deeply shocked Mr. Trimond and he is already working on preventing this 
problem from ever occurring again.” 
Three questions in three different voices shot back. 
“How was this even possible before?” 
“Did Mr. Trimond not think ahead?” 
“What other problems may occur that we don’t know about yet?” 
Here comes the pain. Kristella thought quickly and came to a 
conclusion. “Mr. Trimond has covered hundreds of probable errors. We 
have an engineering staff that is assigned to keeping instant travelling as 
secure as possible. Don’t forget - we are all human beings. Of course, this 
does not excuse the death of such young people, but remember - there’s no 
regulation in place that keeps people from stepping in front of trains 
either. There’s always the unforeseen.” 
“But what happens when a pregnant woman uses the device?” 
someone retorted. 
Kristella’s mind broke into a few little pieces. Had this already 
happened in the past two years? No reports of such an accident had come 
up, but still. Had Walter been the cause of miscarriages? 
“The INSTANT guards have always had instructions to not let 
pregnant women use our devices,” Kristella lied and made a mental note 
to let Walter know about it. 
 
169 
“Didn’t your guards already have instructions to only let people travel 
one at a time?” a reporter asked, dashing forward with his red 
microphone, as if it were a dagger. 
True, Kristella thought. But she wouldn’t get herself cornered. “Again, 
one cannot foresee a man stepping in front of a train. A knife company 
cannot think about people trying to commit suicide or else we would all 
have problems cutting our steaks.” Nobody laughed or even chuckled, but 
the room went a little quieter. “Also, Mr. Patrigg Trakos - the guard who 
let the two now deceased teenagers go into the booth together - has been 
arrested for involuntary manslaughter and will not return to his post, no 
matter when he is going to be free again. As I told you earlier, we’re going 
to update our recruitment plans and regulations to make sure our guards 
follow their instructions in the future.” 
“Does Walter have any regrets now that his invention has killed two 
people?” a female reporter’s high voice battled its way through the crowd. 
How should I know? Kristella had almost said that out loud. 
Thankfully her mouth knew better. “One million people were killed in car 
accidents last year. Yet, no car company has stopped producing the safest 
cars they possibly can. Instant travelling has been in business for two 
years, and so far we have had two casualties. And for the record, currently 
we are successfully sending ten thousand people to their desired locations 
every day.” 
That ought to shut them up, Kristella thought triumphantly. 
“When will Walter implement the new safety features?” 
Kristella thought about how much time Walter would need and how 
much time the public would accept. Before she found a reasonable answer, 
she blurted out: “Tonight, if possible. Until then all instant travelling 
stations remain out of order.” 
“Why have there been no pictures of the victims released to the 
public?” a man with twice the amount of chin asked. 
Kristella hadn’t seen anything either. Only her imagination had come 
up with vague horrifying sketches. “To respect the wish of the families of 
both sides - and out of common respect for the deceased themselves.” And 
probably because the public would freak out and never insta-travel again. 
One centimeter closer and one of the green microphones would pick 
Kristella’s nose. If she moved back a little, the swarm of hungry electronic 
hydra heads would follow her face for the same distance. 
The lights and all the people made the room feel hotter than usual; 
Kristella started to yearn for some fresh air. 
 
170 
“Has Walter made a deal with the devil?” a man with a long brown 
beard asked. 
“No comment,” Kristella answered. That was probably a sign that they 
had run out of serious questions. Time to wrap this up. “You are all invited 
to another press conference at eight p.m. right here, same place.” 
She turned around and bumped into another microphone hanging 
beside her right ear. She held a hand to where it had hit her, dodged 
another two demanding devices and escaped from the choir of voices that 
began to rise again behind her back. Two guards stepped between her and 
the following pack of reporters, and Kristella was able to escape into an 
elevator. 
She pressed the number of Walter’s floor and the doors closed, finally 
silencing the roaring accumulation of random inquiries. 
Kristella sighed with relief, blowing a strand of hair out of her face. 
Next time she saw Xave, she would check his head for horns. Just in 
case. 
 
171 
 
 
 
“Ding”, the elevator announced its arrival on Kristella’s desired eleventh 
floor. 
Two bodyguards in suits and no sunglasses - for a change - blocked her 
way. 
One of them held out his giant hand. “Identify yourself, please.” 
“I’m Ms. Attenburg, I’m sure you’ve seen me in the news,” Kristella 
replied slightly annoyed. 
The two guards looked at each other and the left one insisted: “We 
know, but we have strict...” 
Kristella surprised both of them, ducked and jumped through the 
human wall. 
They didn’t pursue her, but one of them called after her: “Please don ’t 
kill anybody, or we’re gonna get fired.” 
“Yeah, yeah,” Kristella said over her shoulder, throwing a dismissive 
hand upwards. 
She arrived at Walter’s door and entered the suite. 
There were five more bodyguards, surrounding Walter, Xave, Isela, and 
Petar. They were all standing in the center of the room, Walter’s bed 
behind them, the desk with the veiled experiment in close proximity, the 
sofa facing the TV opposite of the bed. 
All eighteen eyes looked at her. 
“Hello everyone,” Kristella said, hiding the fact that she had wanted to 
talk to Walter alone. 
She went closer, past the human shields, and shook hands with both 
mayors. 
“Ms. Attenburg,” Isela began, the diamond around her neck 
luxuriously sparkling at Kristella. “We were just telling Mr. Stern and Mr. 
Trimond here that we fully support them throughout this crisis and will do 
everything we can to prevent any harm to the overall image of instant 
travelling.” 
“That is...” Kristella searched for the right words. “Thank you.” 

 
172 
Walter seemed pretty nervous and shaken up, while Xave was trying to 
keep up a smile. The event surely had had an impact on them. Kristella 
wondered why it hadn’t affected her as much. Sure, the death of two 
young human beings was no laughing matter, but Walter’s face was bleak 
as if he had seen the devil. 
Well, if the press was to be believed, the devil was standing right next 
to him. 
Kristella didn’t let anyone else talk before she handed out the, more or 
less, bad news. “I told the press we would implement a security fix by 
nightfall.” 
“No problem,” Walter said, rather confidently - to Kristella’s surprise. 
The scientist put his arms behind his back and continued. “In fact, there 
already was a check for that in place, mainly in case a pregnant woman 
would use one of the devices. Unfortunately, there was a single typo in the 
code that basically made the check always return true, even if two or more 
human beings got registered.” 
Petar cleared his throat, making his wobbly neck bounce. “I ’m sure that 
made sense to some of you - all I care about is that we actually fix it by 
tonight.” He seemed less optimistic about the situation. 
“Walter always fulfils his promises,” Xave reassured. “If he says he can 
fix it by the time he says it’s going to be fixed, you can bet it’s going to be 
fixed by that time.” 
A frown grew on Kristella’s forehead. Xave grinned and patted Walter 
on his back. 
“Keep us informed throughout the day, while we try to control the 
damage,” Isela said, her right hand stuck out like a graceful twig, a soft 
black glove covering its skin. “And please, Walter, don’t let this get to you. 
Accidents are bound to happen with any technology. It is not your fault.”  
Strangely encouraging words for Isela, Kristella thought. Maybe the death 
of the teenagers did bother her a little. 
“Don’t worry,” Walter said, his smile a ghostly grimace. 
“Let’s handle the press, shall we?” Isela said to Petar and they both left 
the room. Their bodyguards, who appeared slightly more professional 
than Walter’s guards in front of the elevator, went after them. 
Kristella heard a distant ding sound, followed by a dozen footsteps, 
and the closing of the elevator doors. 
“How do they all fit into that elevator?” Kristella asked, trying to set the 
mood. 
“They’re inflatable bodyguards,” Xave said. 
“That makes sense,” Kristella said. She stuck her hands in her Jeans’ 
 
173 
pockets. “What now?” 
“Walter’s gonna work on the fix,” Xave said, holding up his index 
finger. 
Walter nodded. He had taken a step back towards the table and was 
leaning on it with his right hand, his left hand on his hip. 
Xave rose a second finger and continued: “I will contact the parents of 
the teenagers and see to it that they understand we take security seriously. 
Then they will yell in my face and probably shoot me.” 
“Okay, what do I do?” Kristella asked. 
“You take care of Jeremy,” Xave said, now showing three raised fingers. 
“Jeremy?” 
“He’s in my suite, probably still unconscious,” Xave explained. 
Kristella’s mouth opened, but too many words tried to jump out at the 
same time, so she just said: “Wuh?” 
“Walter believes he’s the early adopter victim, he was the first traveller 
after all,” Xave said. 
“It’s probably related to the rat,” Walter mumbled. 
“The rat?” Kristella asked. 
Xave’s hand now held four fingers straight up, all except the thumb. 
“That is number four of our problems. According to Walter, there is a 
chance that travelling severely impacts, well...” 
“Our body’s ability to decay,” Walter finished the sentence, looking 
Kristella straight in her eyes. “And it potentially turns our insides into 
spaghetti.” 
Kristella sat down on the back of the couch. “Spaghetti?” 
“Really, Walter?” Xave asked. “That’s not very scientific of you.” 
“The best I can do under the circumstances,” Walter apologized, 
shrugging, wiping sweat off his forehead. 
In Kristella’s mind four problems fought for the highest rank in the 
charts of ridiculousness, each looking like one of Xave’s fingers. What was 
the middle finger again? The parents shooting Xave? Sounded just right. 
“So, that’s why you’re examining the rat?” Kristella said, pointing at the 
veiled bulge on the table behind Walter. 
“Yes,” Xave answered instead of Walter, his hand still showing four 
digits. 
“And its insides are everlasting spaghetti?” 
“Pretty much.” 
“Anything else on the menu?” 
“Well,” Xave said, now counting his thumb. “The mayors urged us to 
try and hop off their financial support because we’re apparently slowly but 
 
174 
steadily draining them dry, but that’s for later.” 
“Which of those five fingers, apart from the first and second, can be 
made public?” Kristella asked. She wasn’t worried in the least. The full 
assessment of what she’d just heard probably wasn’t travelling instantly 
and would hit her any moment now. 
“None of the remaining three,” Xave said, relaxing his hand. 
Kristella felt sick all of a sudden, thinking that her organs could melt 
sooner or later. 
“So, wait, those who’ve travelled don’t decay? How’s that possible?” 
she asked, now having actually heard what Xave had said. 
“I was about to find out, when two teenagers squeezed into one of my 
booths and died,” Walter said dryly. 
“It’s a miracle that nobody ever reported anything about corpses that 
don’t rot in the past two years,” Kristella said, her mind calculating fast.  
“Don’t worry, one probably would still appear quite dead, skin, tissue 
and organs would dry out and fall off eventually, but nature would simply 
leave you alone,” Walter said. “Cremation should still work normally, 
though.” 
“With the occasional blue or green flame and skulls appearing in the 
smoke,” Xave added. 
“Maybe travelling makes us taste bitter,” Kristella suggested. She 
herself didn’t know if she was joking or not. 
“Or we’re finally outside of nature’s boundaries,” Walter said. 
“Hogwash,” Xave countered. “Probably all the chemicals we eat every 
day. We haven’t been decaying as fast as other creatures in the first place. 
This was probably bound to happen.” 
Walter looked at his wrist watch. “Alright, we should check on Jeremy 
now and try to give him some water.” 
Nobody moved. 
Kristella said: “We, as in...” 
“You,” Xave said, and tossed her the key to his suite. She caught it with 
a lightning fast reflex. “I gotta go die at the hands of raging parents,” he 
concluded. 
“Alright,” Kristella agreed and jumped to her feet. “Good luck with the 
fix, Walter.” 
Walter waved his hand. “As I said earlier, it’s basically already done. 
I’ll let Rick know later and he will apply the fix to all booths remotely. It ’s 
just a software issue, after all.” 
A software issue that had killed two people, and maybe one or two 
unborn children, Kristella thought, but kept it to herself. Walter surely had 
 
175 
boarded the same thought train. 
“There’s actually a sixth problem,” Xave said, making Kristella brace 
herself for what’s to come. “Walter’s going to examine the corpses - or the 
corpse - of the two teenagers. But nobody shall find out about this, 
especially not the press. So even if they continue to ask you about 
rumours, keep denying it. It’s not very ethical, I know, but very valuable 
for further progress.” 
“I- I understand,” Kristella replied with a small voice. “Okay, this is 
getting a little tough to swallow.” She let her butt fall on the back of the 
couch again. 
“It can only get better from here on out,” Xave said. “We just wanted 
you to know this. We trust you.” 
That’s what you get for appearing trustworthy. Kristella missed the 
previous job. The biggest problem back then was finding the keys on the 
keyboard. Also, they could’ve told her earlier, right? Then again, they 
probably had their reasons for keeping the information from her for some 
time. 
“Alright, I’ll see you all later,” Xave said and exited the suite. 
Kristella looked at the floor and waited for the sound of the closing 
elevator doors. 
“Well then,” Walter said, facing a computer on the table a meter away 
from the dead rat. “Onward with the fixing.” 
“How are you holding up, Walter?” Kristella asked. 
Walter looked up and their eyes met. “I’m not entirely sure. As of right 
now, my conscious mind is held prisoner by an army of robots, my body 
being overtaken by the leader of them, making me go through the motions 
of conducting terrifying and world destroying science.” 
“That bad, huh?” Kristella summarized. 
“I’m running out of reasons why I shouldn’t jump out of that window,” 
Walter remarked, pointing at the square opening in the wall in front of 
him, the morning sky laughing in his face. 
Maybe he needed a hug, Kristella thought. Could you hug your own 
boss? Furthermore, are scientists capable of surviving hugs or would 
Walter just dissolve into hot steam? 
“You’re doing great,” is all the emotion Kristella decided to throw in 
Walter’s direction. 
There was a little nudge upwards in one of the corners of Walter ’s 
mouth. 
Kristella finally got to her feet again and also left the room. 
 
176 
 
 
 
“Wake up,” a male voice rang in Leonard’s ears. 
He opened his eyes and was greeted by Mardo’s eager face. Leonard sat 
up. 
He had been sleeping on one of the mattresses on the second floor of 
the thieves’ hideout, amidst the other members. They all had been 
strangely quiet during the night. Leonard had expected them to be up until 
dawn, telling each other jokes or exchanging stealing tactics, not actually 
spending the night on recovery. 
“I have an idea,” Mardo said, rising from his crouching position. 
Leonard rubbed his eyes with only his right thumb and index finger, 
while balancing his body with his left hand. Then he looked around, 
blinking. All other mattresses were empty, and an early sunray shyly 
entered the room through a small window. 
Mardo helped him stand up with an extended strong, young arm. 
Leonard was still wearing all of his clothes, except his shoes, which he had 
left in the room downstairs. His familiar bodily stench rose to his nose, but 
there was no-one around who smelled much better. 
“What sort of idea?” Leonard said drowsily. 
“Come on,” Mardo said, already running down the wooden stairs. 
Leonard scratched the back of his head, his shoulder-long hair moving 
along, and followed Mardo. 
To his surprise - or rather against his hopes - all other thieves were 
sitting at their tables eating what probably was meant to be breakfast, all 
eyes watching Leonard take the stairs down step by step. 
“There he is,” Bellward applauded, wiping bread crumbs off his mouth.  
“Good morning, sunshine,” Verayne greeted Leonard. 
Marla looked away. Timony grinned and Chawlee folded his arms. 
Leonard noticed the TV on one of the shelves was showing some sort of 
news channel. Mardo had positioned himself next to it. 
“The instant travelling network is down,” Mardo began. 
“Ah,” Leonard said simply. “So... That leaves us where?” 

 
177 
Verayne leaned forward on her seat, raised her glass of water and 
gestured with her free hand. “What Mardo is trying to reveal ever so 
slowly - he loves attention - is that he wants to steal the beaming box that’s 
standing around here in Vowkinn.” 
“Why would we want to do that?” Leonard said, skeptically. “I’m 
sorry, I don’t want to sound rude. I just don’t understand.” 
And he was still tired, he thought, trying to repress a growing 
headache. 
“Just for the fuck of it,” Timony said, his bony arm shooting upwards, 
index finger raised, as if he was giving an army the order to attack. 
“Timony!” Verayne scolded. “Mardo, please tell Leonard what you told 
us earlier.” 
Mardo nodded and his face glowed. 
“There are several things we could try to do,” Mardo began. 
“Possibilities, you mean,” Marla mumbled from her little presence 
while nibbling on an apple. 
Mardo ignored her. “We could try to get some ransom, I’m sure these 
things don’t come cheap,” he suggested. 
“For the ransom money they could probably just build a new one,” 
Leonard said. 
Mardo’s smile broke a little, as the thought struck his plan in two. He 
shook his head, as if to discard it, and the smile returned, broader than 
before. “The second idea is to study it and try to do something cool with it 
ourselves,” he continued. 
“Risking our lives so you can have a toy?” Leonard said. He saw 
Verayne and Chawlee fidget nervously in the corner of his eyes. For an 
everlasting moment, all he could hear was everyone’s swallowing and 
munching. “I’m just saying,” Leonard added, trying to defuse his sharp 
counter arguments. He decided to look Verayne in the eyes and apologize. 
“I’m sorry. Again, I don’t want to appear rude.” 
“That’s alright,” she said, dismissing it with her hand. “We need a little 
critical thinking around here.” 
“How about this - let’s sell the individual parts on the black market or 
to competitors,” Mardo said with a triumphant posture. 
Leonard thought that money wasn’t really what they should be after; 
rather keep a low profile to at least have some food to survive every day. 
But he felt that he shouldn’t continue destroying the kid’s dream. “I’m not 
sure why you are asking me for approval, but that sounds good to me,” he 
said. 
 
178 
“He thinks very highly of you,” Verayne mentioned. “That’s why he 
wanted to hear your opinion.” 
Mardo clapped. “Alright, let’s go,” he said. “We don’t have much time 
before the network comes back up online.” 
“Why can’t we steal the booth when it’s on the line?” Leonard felt 
himself forced to ask. 
“I asked a guard casually about the whole thing once, he said they’re 
monitoring them remotely on a huge map,” Mardo explained. “Now that 
it’s offline, they probably can’t do that.” 
“Probably?” Bellward asked. “You know, at first I thought this was a 
good idea, but Leo here is making a little more sense than you.” Bellward 
shot a degrading look at Mardo, dropped his bread on the table for 
dramatic effect and licked his teeth. 
“It doesn’t really matter in the end,” Mardo said. “They still have their 
hands full trying to fix the problem they have on their hands.” 
“There are too many hands in your sentence,” Marla criticized with her 
small voice. 
Mardo again ignored her. Or maybe he didn’t even hear her, Leonard 
realized. 
“Can we come to the fucking point already?” Timony shouted. 
“Timony!” Verayne yelled. She made a gesture as if she had snatched 
the foul word out of the air like a fly, her eyebrows firing a bolt of 
lightning at Timony. 
“He has a point, though,” Chawlee admitted, crossing his arms and 
looking at his wife. “We could use a little money, I’m growing a little tired 
of having to steal food and clothes all the time.” He tucked on the thin 
fabric on his belly. “Plus, I’m not getting younger. Let’s have some fun one 
last time, then let’s settle down. Mardo, what’s your plan again? Go there, 
grab it, drive off with it?” 
“Pretty much,” Mardo said, shrugging. 
“Uuuh,” Leonard said. “Judging by those images on the TV, there’s an 
angry mob in front of the instant travelling booth. How are we going to get 
past them without getting yelled at?” 
“I may have an idea,” Verayne said. “You guys keep working on the 
running away part.” She stood up and went upstairs. 
 
179 
 
 
 
The red car that Xave drove around a street corner purred like an old cat 
and acted just as stubbornly. He probably could have asked Walter, Isela 
or Petar for a new car, or hell, even a limousine along with a driver in a 
white suit and a trunk full of DVDs he could watch while hanging out on 
the leather seats – but, he had always been humble and this red coughing 
garbage on wheels was the first self-acquired car he had bought years ago. 
There was nostalgia hanging alongside the loose cloth off the seats and an 
air of adolescence among the smell that reminded him of the good old 
days of his trashy apartment; a stench that he wouldn’t dare to investigate 
further (but he had been able to trace it back to the dark depths below the 
driver’s seat). 
His destination was hell; actually, the first stage out of two. He felt hot 
and yanked on his tie, only to straighten it again. 
The words he was going to use in a few minutes to console the parents 
of the boy Fretz, whom he, from a certain sensationalist angle, had killed, 
hadn’t been invented yet. A throng of writers couldn’t come up with fitting 
words in a thousand years, Xave realized, as he approached a tall 
apartment building and parked opposite to it. 
A bad idea, he noticed. As soon as he got out of the car, reporters and 
protesters raced towards him from across the street. He marched through 
them, his tie waving in the storm of questions. 
“Mr. Stern, what will you say to Fretz’s parents? Do you think words 
will revive him?” a man yelled at him sarcastically, carrying a sign that 
read, “Travel INSTANT – to hell”. 
I’m going to paint a pentagram right at the center of their living room and 
chant a long forgotten song right into their faces for starters, Xave thought, but 
kept his eyes fixed on the door of the building and his mouth shut.  
“Are you sad?” a reporter with a dictating machine asked. 
I’m shedding manly tears, Xave thought. 
“What does the death of Fretz mean for all other instant travellers?”  a 
woman in a blue coat asked. 

 
180 
Xave looked at her out of the side of his eye and thought: We’re gonna 
get you all, what else? 
Almost at the entrance. 
“What would your parents think?” someone shrieked. 
Xave turned around and before he could actually fire back with a 
remark a wrapped package of instant noodles slapped his face and 
dropped to his feet. Then it rained a bunch of them. He shielded himself 
with his hands, ducked and dashed towards the entrance. 
The flood of protesters and reporters split apart and two policewomen 
helped Xave arrive with his scalp intact. The two uniformed women kept 
the angry mob away from the two large glass doors, while a third police 
officer opened one of them and lead Xave inside. 
“Mr. Stern,” the officer greeted him in a dark voice. “I hope you have 
prepared a world-changing Nobel prize winning speech, because if not, 
you will probably return home in four pieces.” 
“I’ve actually already arrived in four pieces, that’s how prepared I am,” 
Xave said, sternly. 
They moved up a narrow staircase, two or three floors, passing another 
two people in blue, until the officer gestured at an inconspicuous door and 
stood aside, nodding at Xave and knocking twice with the back of his left 
hand. 
The door opened slightly and a devastated female face appeared in the 
crack. 
“Mr. Stern here to visit you, Mrs. Hamer.” 
The door shut with such a force that Xave felt the vibration in his feet, 
and a cloud of dust exploded from the frame. 
The officer and Xave looked at each other, while a distant sob was 
heard behind the door. 
“Mrs. Hamer,” the uniformed man repeated, hitting the wood with the 
back of a finger again, four times; gently at first, louder at the end.  
They waited an eternity in awkward silence, listening to muted sniffs 
and coughs. The officer looked at his wristwatch every once in a while, but 
never into Xave’s eyes. 
Even that guy seems to think I’m a killer, Xave thought, feeling blood 
dripping from his hands, which turned out to be sweat. 
“Sure is stuffy in here,” Xave noted, looking around, noticing an 
elevator with an “out of order” sign. 
“It’s an old building,” the dark voice told Xave. “Built right after the 
second world war.” 
 
181 
“Ah,” Xave said, rocking back and forth on his heels and toes, hands 
behind his back. 
There was noise coming from the door to the left, probably people 
trying to hear what was going on. 
The door in front of Xave opened and a man one head taller than him 
stepped outside. He was wearing casual clothes, and when he turned to 
look at Xave, his long brown hair flowed over his shoulders like tiny little 
snakes. 
“Mr. Hamer, this is-” the officer began, but a huge hand stopped his 
introduction. Mr. Hamer’s stare never let go of Xave. 
“Our sincere condolences, Mr. Hamer,” Xave said, after a thousand 
little processes in his head had come up with a million other sentences and 
agreed to only one. 
The man said nothing, looked at the officer, went back inside like a 
slow giant and the door shut softly. 
Xave stared at the door, then on the ground for half a minute, turned on 
his heel and approached the stairs. 
The officer held him back on his right arm and his calm, yet chillingly 
direct tone caught Xave slightly off guard. “You have a fine invention at 
your disposal, I sincerely hope that you realize your responsibilities and 
didn’t know beforehand that it could and would hurt people the way it 
already did.” 
Xave swallowed, feeling his arm pulsate where the officer was holding 
him - then he was let go. The officer went past Xave and led the way down 
the stairs. 
Xave’s mind rebelled against the idea of being responsible for the boy’s 
death; his ego didn’t even begin to support that idea. He knew Walter well 
enough; the scientist was a perfectionist, errors happened only because 
there was a zero point one percent chance of them happening. It hadn’t 
been their fault that the teenagers had died, not in the least. 
They reached the entrance and the officer opened one of the two doors. 
Xave stopped and stared at the policeman. 
“They will kill me if I go out there alone,” Xave said. 
“Would that be my fault?” the man said, his buttons on his blue shirt 
reflecting neon light. His face was that of a father, trying to teach his stupid 
kid a life lesson. 
“Technically, yes, since you could have prevented it,” Xave replied. 
“Exactly,” the officer said with satisfaction, and walked outside. 
 
182 
He was just playing with me, Xave thought and hurried after him, passing 
the two policewomen, wading through the roaring manifestation of 
random insults. He felt two dozen eyes fixated on his neck, trying to break 
it. The policeman carved a safe tunnel out of the mass of raging bodies 
until they reached Xave’s car. 
For a second Xave saw blood dripping off the car’s sides, but it was just 
his mind trying to instill guilt. 
Not even my mind’s on my side. 
“Let the man drive,” the policeman said loudly. The mob’s yelling 
quieted down a bit and they retreated a meter or two. 
Xave thanked the policeman, got into his car and left the scene.  
One more to go, he reminded himself. 
The image of Fretz’s father flashed in front of his eyes, a stoic giant, 
with a blunt weapon that inflicted remorse instead of wounds and broken 
bones. 
“Well, fuck you too, Mr. Hamer!” he shouted at the windshield, both of 
his hands wringing the steering wheel. “Oh, you’re not saying anything to 
me, are you? I’m not worthy of an answer, am I? Well, tough shit, guess 
who doesn’t give a fuck!” 
He hit the wheel in the center once, his car honked in agreement. 
That felt better. 
The other parents lived in Mienz as well, fortunately, just ten minutes 
away, this time in a small house that already looked sad by itself. There 
were two camera teams and reporters of different news channels waiting 
for their prey and probably summarizing “the events so far”. More people 
with strong vocal chords and fists that didn’t seem to be affected by 
gravity had gathered behind the cameras, waving more signs: 
“No more INSTANT deaths!” 
“Return to hell – this INSTANT!” 
“Travel INSTANT, kill your infant!” 
Xave parked his car, took a deep breath, got out, and as he began 
walking towards the house, he was immediately surrounded by the 
inquisitive multi-headed monster. 
“Are you going to resign?” 
“Did you ask God before plotting against him?” 
“Will you compensate the family monetarily?” 
“Why isn’t Walter here himself?” 
“How many more are you going to kill?” 
“Is this just a game to you?” 
 
183 
Xave exploded into anger and turned around so furiously, that his 
followers were shocked for a moment. He breathed in and set out to say 
something, waited for a bit, then – before he could say something stupid – 
a microphone poked his jaw and deformed his face into what must have 
been a funny grimace to his onlookers. 
He swallowed his hasty response – and continued his march to the 
house, where three policemen waited for him. 
Before Xave could say anything, the door to the house sprung open and 
an old, but surprisingly fit man welcomed him. “Ah, welcome, Xave! 
Please, come in, come in.” 
Xave rubbed his jaw, nodded at the uniforms, and went inside. The old 
man grabbed his hand and shook it. “How nice of you to visit us, we’re all 
waiting in the living room.” 
He left a clueless Xave standing in the entrance area, so motionless that 
he felt like a statue. At least nobody could have held it against a statue for 
not having the right words to apologize for a murder he hadn’t committed. 
And, by the way, brain, it wasn’t murder, it was involuntary suicide, Xave 
retorted in his head. 
“Onwards,” Xave whispered to himself and forced his right leg to start 
his death march. 
The interior of the living room was quite lovely and warm. The 
fireplace sung a crackling song. There were paintings of various people on 
the walls and a dozen lit candles around a picture of the deceased Brittany 
on a small table next to an ancient sewing machine. A black hi -fi system 
tower was quietly pushing some kind of Rock music through two 
speakers. Four people looked at Xave as he entered; he assumed them to be 
parents and grandparents. 
They all smiled. 
Xave hesitated. There was something eerie about the four faces, the 
death of their loved one hanging in the air like a veiled ghost. 
“Please, take a seat,” the younger woman said, probably Brittany’s 
mother. 
Xave sat down across all four of them on a heavy arm chair, the black 
leather creaking under his butt as he slowly lowered his body. 
He decided to go first. “Let me begin by saying that you have our 
deepest sympathies.” 
“Thank you,” they all said almost in unison. 
“Oh, Mr. Stern,” the old woman said. “Don’t trouble yourself with 
finding the right words.” 
 
184 
Xave’s reply got stuck in his throat and once again he resembled a 
marble statue. 
“Our Brittany has left us on her own choice,” the father said. “We know 
she’s happy now.” 
The mother smiled broadly and almost giggled. 
“I… We…” Xave stammered, trying to get a foot on solid ground. 
“We’re happy, happier now than we were before,” the old man said. He 
was sitting on the armrest of the sofa in front of Xave, on which his wife 
was sitting. The second sofa, near the fireplace, was occupied by the 
younger couple. 
“But…” Xave leaned forward to try and get a hold of the situation. 
“You have our full support,” the mother said, gleefully. “Please do not 
hesitate to fully inspect Brittany to help the cause and improve the world.”  
“You want money?” Xave blurted out his best guess. Was that the 
reason for their excitement and indifference? Because they awaited a hunk 
of change? 
“No!” they all said, one waving hands, others shaking heads. 
“You misunderstand,” said the grandmother. “We don’t see death as 
something bad.” 
“You don’t,” Xave said. 
“We don’t understand why people are so upset about death,” the father 
continued. “Life is preparation, death is the journey.” 
“You can have money,” Xave said. He felt like an absolute idiot, but he 
forgot his good words at the door. 
The grandfather laughed. “It’s not about money,” he said and slapped 
his thigh. “We don’t feel sadness, we are happy.” 
Xave’s mind returned to work and he seemed to get it. “In that case, let 
me at least assure you that Brittany will be most important in our future 
research. She will play a major role in improving instant travelling for the 
rest of the world.” 
“Thank you,” the mother said, her hands folded. 
There’s a tear, Xave thought. But not a sad one. 
“That’s all we wanted to hear,” the grandmother said with a shivering 
voice. “Oh my, where are my manners? Do you want coffee? Something to 
eat, perhaps?” 
Xave rose from his seat. “It has been a pleasure to meet such an idyllic 
family, but I’m afraid my time is up and must be spent elsewhere. Fires are 
burning back in the company, you understand,” he said, smiling and 
flashing his teeth. 
They all stood and shook his hand one after another. 
 
185 
“Absolutely,” the father said. 
“Please take care,” were the mother’s words. 
“Let us know when you have any news,” the grandfather said. 
And finally, the grandmother dragged Xave down to her level and 
spoke into his right ear: “Brittany would have wanted this as well, you 
must know. She would’ve been very proud, as proud as we all are right 
now.” 
Xave straightened his back again and bowed slightly. “We will do our 
best to honour Brittany and her family.” 
With that, he left the house and his smile broke apart. He didn’t try to 
comprehend what his senses had just endured. Instead, he faced the 
yelling people outside, almost welcoming them and their logical ways. 
Two of the officers helped him to his car this time, and as he put the foot 
on the gas pedal he waved at everyone, smiling. 
 
186 
 
 
 
The INSTANT tent in Vowkinn was surrounded by annoyed travellers, 
who had obviously already become dependent on the quick and free 
transportation. 
Leonard approached the crowd from the left side of the pedestrian 
path. There was only one guard keeping the mob at bay, telling them to 
remain calm. 
No police, no press. 
They are all focusing on Mienz because of the teenager tragedy, just as we 
hoped, Leonard realized. 
“The instant travelling service will return to regular working conditions 
tonight,” the guy in the dark blue uniform said firmly. “Please, everybody, 
I need you to calm down, turn around and spend the day somewhere 
else!” 
Leonard moved closer and heard various complaints. Someone was 
about to miss an important meeting, a woman said her family was on the 
other side, yadda, yadda. As if there were no other means of transportation 
anymore, Leonard thought. 
Bellward, Timony, and Mardo arrived at the scene from all sides and 
joined the crowd. 
Timony, resembling a stick figure with a dark blue hat, vanished 
completely, while Bellward pushed people away as if they were blades of 
grass, with Mardo following in his path. 
They were all wearing improvised INSTANT guard uniform replicas. 
Fortunately for them, Verayne had a special yearning for stealing clothes 
(and commanding others to do so). On the second floor of the thieves ’ 
hideout two cupboards and a chest had been bursting with various attire  
and costumes. Half of the available clothes had been red - her favourite 
color, but they had found some blue ones as well. Cheap chains to wear 
from shoulder to shoulder had completed the trick. However, only Timony 
had a fitting hat. 

 
187 
Bellward looked incredibly funny, Leonard had to admit. He hoped 
nobody would notice that Bellward was actually wrapped in a dark blue 
bed linen, hastily cut into form by Verayne, while being held against 
Bellward’s body by her husband Chawlee and the young Marla the night 
before. It had been a priceless situation, but hopefully with a prize in sight.  
Leonard had to push aside his distracting thoughts and concentrate on 
the scene, while digging his way through the mass of angry bodies, who 
were now shouting at him and the other fake guards as well. 
“Are you guys here to repair the thing?” somebody yelled into his ear. 
“Yes,” Timony shouted back, only to be looked at harshly by Bellward 
over his huge right shoulder. 
Leonard had a hard time ignoring the aural onslaught, but he pressed 
on. 
So far, everything went according to the plan they had come up with 
after listening to the radio describing the events surrounding the dead 
teenagers. 
All four fake INSTANT guards reached the true guard at the same time 
from different directions, so that they cut him off from the crowd and he 
would feel intimidated. 
“Ah, so now someone’s coming,” the guard cried. “I told Walter an 
hour ago to send someone. Leaves me standing here, all alone - is that how 
you treat your employees?” 
Someone else is coming? Leonard thought and he felt a rush of anxiety. 
“We’re here to take the booth for repairs,” Bellward said. 
They had suggested he should talk for obvious reasons. 
Not waiting for a response from the flabbergasted guard, the four 
thieves went past him and Mardo checked the booth’s connection leading 
into the ground. 
The air was thick in the tent, Leonard realized, probably because there 
was no circulation, with all the people blocking the entrance and the sun 
shining quite eagerly. 
“Wait,” the real guard said and made an attempt to turn away and pick 
up the phone, when another woman turned him around on his shoulder to 
shoot off another complaint. 
“Quick,” Leonard said through his teeth to his three companions.  
For a moment he couldn’t believe he was already on a job together with 
more or less a bunch of strangers, but the past few days had been too 
reassuring, too comfortable and - dare he think - fun. Almost like a fam- 
 
188 
Leonard stepped forward and leaned against the glass booth. To his 
surprise, it moved a little. The electric throne on which the glass rested was 
standing loosely on the ground, only the thick cable held it in place.  
He nodded towards Bellward, who moved his muscular neck in 
approval and rammed the booth. 
“What on earth are you guys doing?” the real guard asked alarmed, 
now ignoring the crowd completely. He came closer. “Are you supposed 
to do that? Let me call Walter.” 
Just as the guard grabbed the receiver next to the booth, Bellward 
hugged the glass booth, ripped it away from the thick cable and the power 
cord, and swung it onto his shoulder, the lower end of the travelling 
device hitting the guard’s jaw, sending him flying against the soft wall of 
the tent and onto his ass. 
“Oops,” Bellward said. The five or six people actually being able to look 
into the tent all had their mouths open and first looked at the knocked out 
guard on the ground, then slowly turned their heads towards Bellward, 
who was still shouldering the booth with both of his thick arms. 
The torn cable and the connector on the booth’s end leaked brown 
liquid. Leonard hoped it wasn’t blood, but rather some kind of fluid that 
made the transportation go faster or keep the body parts fresh.  
Timony giggled. 
Leonard stepped forward. “Somebody please call the ambulance - we 
have to get the booth to Walter as soon as possible. Please move aside,” he 
said, waving his arms wildly in front of him, as if he were about to part the 
sea. Timony, Mardo and Bellward followed him. The people stepped out 
of the way as to not get hurt by the glass booth which easily reached above 
their heads on Bellward’s broad shoulder. 
“Let’s move,” Leonard said. 
“Hurry up, Bellward!” Timony teased. 
“What you saying, toothpick? You wanna hold this for a minute?” 
Bellward responded and threatened to throw the booth on him, but 
ultimately held it back. 
As quickly as Bellward’s cargo allowed, they walked away from the 
tent and the upset crowd - then they heard a siren. Somebody must have 
made an emergency call from a nearby payphone. 
“Boy, this is getting heavy,” Bellward moaned. 
Timony set aside a joke and helped balance the booth with his stretched 
out arms. 
Leonard heard louder voices behind them, more cars arriving at the 
scene, including a Trimond van a minute later. 
 
189 
They made an effort to walk faster, even Bellward, who continually 
exhaled and inhaled like a locomotive. 
Another minute later, after passing by perplexed faces of several 
people, they finally went around the corner of a house block to the left, 
across the street, coming across more dropped jaws. 
Mardo greeted some of them nervously. “Hi! Hello there! Good day!”  
There was the van. Leonard opened the back quickly, pulling both 
doors and stepping aside so that Bellward wouldn’t crush him. The 
towering man let the booth slowly slide into the van, while Mardo and 
Timony climbed inside and fixated the device with cords and belts to the 
inner walls left and right. 
Leonard moved to the front and jumped behind the steering wheel. 
Bellward sat down on the passenger seat, making the van tilt slightly to the 
right. 
“Let’s go!” Mardo yelled, while he and Timony closed the back doors 
from within. 
Bellward ripped open the upper two buttons of his blue blanket 
uniform, threw the plastic gold chain to his feet and wiped off his dripping 
forehead. “That was fun,” he remarked. 
Leonard ignited the engine and drove off into the opposite direction of 
their hideout. 
 
190 
 
 
 
“Walter?” Kristella said against the closed door to the scientist ’s suite, 
knocking twice. 
She checked her wristwatch. Another fifteen minutes until the press 
conference at 8 o’clock. 
There’s no time, she thought and opened the door. 
Walter was asleep, his face lying on the desk next to the dead rat.  
Kristella didn’t know if she should be grossed out or not, but her nose 
chose to wrinkle anyway and the corners of her mouth dropped. 
“Come on, Walter,” she said and pulled him back, his jaw pointing at 
his chest and his head rocking left and right like that of a ragdoll. “Wake 
up!” 
She slapped him softly, then a little harder. 
He finally woke up. “Kristella,” he murmured his eyes glassy and 
drowsy. “Why are you hitting me?” 
“The press conference starts in a few minutes,” she said, dramatically 
pointing at her wristwatch. 
“And I should be there?” Walter mumbled, the words sluggishly 
stumbling out of his mouth. 
“You said you would fix it by tonight, well, is it fixed?” Kristella asked. 
She felt like her mother. 
“Of course,” Walter moaned, grabbing his glasses off somewhere next 
to him and put them on his head as if for the first time. Kristella balanced 
them on his nose. “It’s fixed and Rick is probably already done.” 
“Good, that is what people want to know, and they surely would love 
to hear it from the mouth of the scientist who’s responsible for all this sh-” 
Walter frowned and his eyes woke up and looked at her incredulously. 
“Shuper invention,” she said with an exaggerated smile. 
“Well, that certainly brought me back to life,” he said and rose to his 
feet. “How’s Jeremy?” 

 
191 
“Oh,” Kristella said, remembering the naked man, drenched in sweat 
and what looked like hours old vomit. He hadn’t talked much and not 
realized that there had been a person next to him, spilling water into his 
mouth and all over his neck. The groaning and moaning still echoed in her 
head, the thought of something terrible going on beneath the shiny skin 
around Jeremy’s belly area wouldn’t let her go. She inhaled and exhaled 
into puffed cheeks. “Ah, yep, he’s doing fine. He drank the water I gave 
him. Didn’t exactly see me though.” 
“Hm,” Walter said, buttoning up his white coat. 
“He’s going to die, isn’t he?” Kristella asked, despite not actually 
wanting to know. 
“He’s not going to die, Kristella,” Walter said with a firm undertone 
while stuffing his feet into his black leather shoes. Then he turned around 
to face her and said: “I know how to help him.” 
Kristella managed to nod and feign confidence, but she couldn’t do so 
and look at him, instead her gaze wandered to the floor. 
Walter patted his chest pockets, searching for something, only to come 
to the conclusion that his glasses were already on his nose. He looked 
around for something else, rubbed his hair a little and then presented 
himself. 
“Well,” he said to Kristella. “How do I look? Shuper?” 
Kristella cocked her head and examined him quickly. “You look exactly 
how people expect you to look like right now,” she said. 
“Perfect, I guess,” Walter said, sighing, then he opened the door and 
gestured Kristella to step through. 
 
192 
 
 
 
“Where are we going again?” Leonard asked, controlling the large steering 
wheel with both hands firmly wrapped around it. He felt a little uneasy 
since he hadn’t driven a car in more than a decade. 
“Keep going straight,” Bellward said, cutting the air vertically with his 
right flat hand. 
“I mean, who wants to buy a giant glass tube with electronics stuck to 
its bottom?” Leonard retried. 
“Einstein,” Bellward answered while picking his left ear with a giant 
index finger. “He’s a guy we’ve visited ever since I was a kid. He’s usually 
the go-to person when we gotta get rid of things. Uh, rare things.” 
For a moment Leonard considered the possibility of meeting the Albert 
Einstein. “Einstein’s not his real name though, right?” 
“Nah,” Bellward chuckled. “Just something we’ve been calling him 
ever since he’d grown a beard. He also knows lots of stuff, so it kind of fits, 
you know?” 
“So, what’s his real name?” 
“Nobody remembers,” Bellward said, letting his eyes follow passing 
trees. 
“You don’t remember?” Leonard asked, showing the huge man to 
Leonard’s right a raised eyebrow. 
“Yeah, you know,” Bellward said, shrugging, “it’s like when you’re a 
kid and sometimes you gotta think real hard how your grandma and your 
grandpa are called, besides granny and gramps.” 
“You didn’t know the names of your grandparents?” 
“Not until I was older, no. Take a left here,” Bellward said, shoving a 
finger under Leonard’s nose. 
Leonard turned the van onto a field road, with grass growing in the 
middle. They’ve been outside of Vowkinn for almost an hour, leaving 
civilization far behind. Their surroundings consisted of trees and more 
trees, standing on hills or between fertile fields. 

 
193 
The sun was on its way down, painting leaves and grass in a warm 
orange. 
A frail man was standing in the middle of the road. Leonard leaned 
forward and squinted to make out the man’s features: tall, old, gray long 
hair and beard, hands behind his back, his face showing strain, his clothes 
dangling loosely from his dangerously thin limbs. 
“There he is!” Bellward yelled with a grin. 
Leonard slowed down and stopped three meters before the ghostly 
figure. The lights of the van shining through the twilight cast a long 
shadow behind Einstein. 
Leonard exited the van, Bellward jumped out as well, making the van 
rock left and right. 
“We’re here, boys,” Bellward said loudly, slamming the right side of 
the van with his large hand. 
The back doors of the van opened. Timony and Mardo appeared and 
joined Leonard and Bellward. Their blue uniforms made them look like 
performing clowns who had just appeared in the middle of the circus.  
All four walked towards Einstein, who was still standing there, his line 
of a shadow behind him soon joined by four more. 
“Long time no see,” Bellward said, shaking Einstein’s hand. 
“Good to see you,” Mardo greeted him, also grabbing the bony hand, 
moving it up and down twice. 
Timony and Leonard repeated the gesture. 
For the first time Einstein opened his mouth to say something. His 
voice was dry and high, but his words were formed quickly, his eyebrows 
moving along in a sort of rhythm. “You have something for me?”  
“Oh yes,” Mardo said. “Please, have a look!” 
All five men marched around the van. They made a passage for 
Einstein, who approached the glass booth in the back. 
The old man put on a pair of glasses onto the lower end of his nose and 
inspected the booth through them and then above them. 
“Well, what do you think?” Mardo asked, jumping up and down with 
excitement. “Isn’t it awesome?” 
Einstein took his time turning around to face them again. He said: 
“What on Earth is it?” 
“A beaming device,” Mardo answered. 
“It shoots lasers?” Einstein asked, his voice shivering through strained 
vocal chords. 
“No, no, the other kind of beaming,” Mardo said, shaking his head. 
 
194 
Einstein put a bent finger to his temple. “If a beam’s not a beam, what’s 
it then?” 
“It’s a teleportation booth,” Leonard said, not wanting to stay here 
longer than necessary. “You step in – poof – you’re on the other end.” 
Einstein raised his eyebrows, glanced at the invention behind him once 
more, then asked Leonard directly: “Well, where’s the other end?” 
All four thieves looked at each other. 
“It’s the only one we have,” Mardo said. “It was already pretty risky to 
get this one. It’s actually highly sought after technology. I think the 
company who makes these things is receiving death threats on a regular 
basis.” 
“Shit,” Timony cursed. “I knew this wasn’t worth the trouble.” He 
kicked the left door of the van. A bird flew away in fright from a nearby 
tree. 
“Shut up,” Bellward shouted at Timony. 
“Don’t worry,” Einstein said and began turning around to move away 
from the van. “I’m not saying it’s not worth anything.” He waved his 
hand. “Bring it inside.” 
“Sure,” Bellward said. He put a foot into the van next to the booth, 
undid the fixations and pulled it out and onto his shoulder. Mardo tried to 
help by lifting the top of the glass dome with both of his hands, but 
Bellward said: “Let go, you’ll only hurt yourself.” 
Leonard scratched his chin. “Bring it where?” He looked around, his 
eyes not being able to distinguish one tree or field from the other.  
Einstein walked a few steps, then slowly kneeled down – and inserted a 
key into a spot on the ground. 
“What is he doing?” Leonard asked Mardo and Timony. Before they 
could answer, Leonard figured it out. 
A square part of the field, as big as four by four meters, including all its 
dark brown soil and some blades of grass, flipped open with a silent 
humming sound and revealed highlighted stairs that led underground.  
Leonard felt weird all of a sudden. “I’m not going down there.” 
“Sure you are,” Mardo said. “Come on!” 
They went down the metal stairs, with Einstein leading on and 
Bellward right after him, shouldering the instant travelling machine.  
“Oh god, it’s still a mess,” Timony declared as he looked around. 
“You’re not looking close enough,” Einstein said. 
 
195 
They were standing in a large room, a hall, brightly lit by several lamps 
posted next to the grey concrete walls. There were a dozen iron shelves 
standing in seemingly random directions filled with electronic things that 
Leonard had never seen before. There were TVs, some turned on, radios, 
all kinds of junk, even a fishing boat and one half of an old rusty car. And 
cables, so many of them that Leonard felt like entering a lair of snakes, the 
hissing perfectly simulated by computers that were standing on an array of 
desks, sending their signals to bulky monitors, which were heating up the 
air. 
“Put it over there,” Einstein said, pointing at some corner that was 
already full of junk. “Now let me see,” the old man said, rummaging 
around in a heap of various cases. “Ah. Here.” He turned around, his 
fragile figure almost breaking apart from all the movement, handing 
Mardo a small ornate box. “That should cover it.” 
Mardo reached out and upon receiving it he said: “Thank you.” 
Timony looked at it and knocked on it three times with his knuckles. 
“That’s cool and all, but what are we to do with it? Try to trade it in for a 
carrot or two?” 
Einstein grinned, showing two rows of old teeth. “You figure it out. I 
have something to figure out too.” He pointed at the booth that just got put 
down by Bellward, summoning small clouds of dust upon impact. “We’re 
even,” Einstein added. 
“Look, old man,” Timony said, marching towards Einstein. “We 
basically risked our lives for this thing. It’s really fancy tech, you’re 
probably going to get rich with it just by looking at it. So don’t fuck around 
with us and give us some of your money.” 
“I said, you figure it out,” Einstein said, his face still lit up. “It was 
supposed to be a joke.” Then he turned around and slowly sat down in 
front of one of his computers, while holding his back. 
“What…” Timony was about to jump at him, but Leonard held him 
back. 
“Oh my, just open it,” Leonard said impatiently. 
Mardo put the precious box on the ground and pushed two square 
golden knobs to opposing sides. The lock sprang open and Mardo pulled 
up the lid. He stared at the contents and whistled. “Even is indeed what 
we are, I’d say.” He grabbed a small neat pile of money and held up the 
valuable pieces of paper. 
Bellward breathed heavily and wiped his forehead. “Good. I ’m not 
gonna carry this thing another foot.” 
 
196 
 
 
 
While Kristella and Walter made their way to the 8 p.m. press conference, 
Rick was working like a maniac on the seventh floor of the INSTANT 
hotel. Blue light shone outside through the three large bullet-proof 
windows into the night, sent out by the eight heavy CRT monitors 
standing across three desks with their backs against a wall. 
Three of the monitors were set to display three different sectors of the 
INSTANT cable network. They overlapped at the edges, but this setup 
eradicated the need for scrolling. All yellow blinking lights across the map 
indicated dysfunctional booths, and green lines represented cables, the red 
line between Taresville and Illsburg blinked dangerously. 
The fix that Walter had uploaded onto a server on the network was 
supposed to go out to all booths now, which, according to Walter himself, 
shouldn’t be a problem thanks to the tool Walter had programmed. 
Rick followed the overly complicated instructions to send out the 
software patch to all booths remotely. He flipped through ten pages, 
clicking and typing something every now and then, and repeated the 
process for every booth. 
This wasn’t his kind of work. Even though he started to memorize 
certain workflows, he never really warmed up to computers. 
Someone has to do it, he reassured himself. 
He had to stop halfway through when he tried to update the booth at 
Vowkinn. It wouldn’t respond. He finished the other ones shortly before 9 
o’clock, pushed himself away on his office chair to a table on the other side 
of the room and before he could pick up the receiver to call the Vowkinn 
guard - the phone rang. 
He stuck the receiver to his ear. “Yeah?” 
“Hey, Rick,” the Vowkinn guard said. 
“Oh good, I was about to call you,” Rick said. 
“I just woke up in the hospital an hour ago, they wouldn’t let me call 
you earlier.” 

 
197 
“Hospital?” Rick stood up and stretched, suppressing a hearty moan. 
He glanced at the monitors, out of habit. 
“Yeah, some other guards visited me today while I was keeping the 
people away. The bigger one grabbed the booth and shoved it in my face. I 
lost two teeth and the doc says I have a slight concussion.” The voice 
sounded aggressive. 
“You mean, the booth’s gone?” Rick asked, now looking out of the 
window. Ever since the windows had gotten replaced by bulletproof ones 
he had felt a lot safer. There had been a discussion to even remove the 
windows completely and insert bricks instead, but Xave had been against 
it. “Never show them we’re afraid,” he had said. “We’re already afraid 
enough by not letting Walter out of the house.” 
“Yes,” the guard confirmed. “Jesus, I still can’t believe he just picked it 
up, ripping it out of the ground like the goddamn Hulk.” 
“I’ll mention that to the police in a few minutes when I’m at the 
Taresville INSTANT. Do you remember their faces? Any names maybe?” 
“Faces – maybe,” the guard said hesitantly. 
“I’ll call you again later.” 
“Sure, I’ll be here all night.” 
“Good, talk to you later then,” Rick said, bundled the curly telephone 
cable in his left hand, hung up the receiver and dropped the cable next to  
the phone. 
He checked the monitors again. There were two keyboards lying in 
front of the screens and he typed a few commands on both of them, 
finishing up his patch work, rebooting the complete network. 
He rose straight up, inhaled and exhaled, looking at his work. 
“There,” he said to himself. “Now off to the main node.” 
He and Walter had organically started calling the Taresville INSTANT 
tent “the main node” because it was the heart of the network; you could 
travel to all available booths from there. 
He picked up his blue coat and turned to the right, where a booth stood 
in the corner, right next to the door. Both ways led out of the room, and 
Rick couldn’t shake that strange feeling when looking at both exits; they 
seemed so similar and yet so different. 
He activated the booth from a console next to it and checked one of the 
monitors from afar, squinting a little. “Seems to work,” he mumbled, 
moved inside, vanished and stepped out of the maintenance booth in 
Taresville’s main station. 
 
198 
The silent humming of the computers got replaced by loud, impatient 
voices of press people trying to squeeze answers out of the poor guards, 
and customers who demanded to travel this instant, and the sound of cars 
passing by on wet pavement outside of the INSTANT tent. 
“Hey Rick,” Rae in her blue uniform greeted him. “Boy, those guys 
have been giving us a pretty rough time the past few hours.” 
“Yeah, it sounds pretty nasty,” Rick said, turning around, taking in his 
new surroundings. Flashing blue and red light highlighted the dozens of 
heads and umbrellas in the night outside. “The police are still here?”  
“Yep,” she nodded. “Guess they either found something or died from 
the stench.” 
Rick looked right at her. “I’ve updated all booths remotely, check and 
see if they work and then resume normal activity. Don’t worry about 
Vowkinn for now.” 
“Alright, I’ll get right to it,” Rae said and jumped to the next booth’s 
console. 
Rick fought his way through the sea of hands, umbrellas and 
microphones, and walked around the tent, evading three parked police 
cars. The entrance to the sewers was surrounded by one giant lamp, police 
lines, and two policemen. 
“Hello, Mr. Lorand,” one of them said. “The chief inspector wants to 
talk to you.” 
“Alright,” Rick said and climbed down into the sewers. 
There were identical little spotlights placed every five meters in the 
corridor, lighting up the rubbery surface of the black, thick and heavy 
INSTANT cables. He heard voices echoing from further down the path and 
he followed them. When he stepped into the actual sewers, he stopped for 
a moment to stare at all the lights the police had mounted on the walls, as 
if Christmas had come early to the underworld. 
A policeman nodded at him while speaking through his radio. 
Bernand would have a field day down here, Rick thought. 
After a minute or two he reached the scene of the caved in ceiling and 
the destroyed cable. There were a handful of uniformed men and women 
looking at the smallest details to recover any clues they might have missed. 
Lots of little numbered cards marked their previously found oddities; a 
scratch on one of the fat INSTANT cords, a dent in the wall, a crack in the 
ceiling, and footprints on the ground next to the flowing water. 
Somebody shot photos in regular intervals. Two people were talking 
with each other, another uniformed woman spoke commands into her 
radio while straightening her fancy peaked hat. 
 
199 
The chief inspector stood in the middle of all this, holding a bunch of 
papers in his right hand. Rick’s first impression formed a fifty-year-old, 
grumpy man, married with kids, beer-loving, as well as way too much into 
strictness in his rules and surroundings. The chief also appeared to have 
had red hair once. 
“Chief inspector,” Rick said, shaking his hand. “I heard you were 
looking for me. I’m Rick Lorand.” 
“Ah,” the inspector said. “Chief inspector Reklur, at your service. And 
yes, I’ve been looking for you.” 
“How’s the investigation doing?” Rick asked, trying to sound like the 
issue at hand was life-threateningly serious. 
“Just fine, just fine,” the chief said, a broad grin on his chubby face. 
“How’s the work on the network coming along?” 
“Everything’s patched up,” Rick said. “But the booth in Vowkinn was 
probably stolen.” 
“Really?” Reklur asked. 
“Well, the guard said something along the lines of fake guards coming 
in, uprooting the booth and knocking him out with it.” 
Reklur’s face was a mixture of wonder and incredulity. “I’ll send 
someone there to check it out.” 
“Thank you,” Rick said. “Do we already know how that happened?” 
He pointed at the wall of debris, blocking the tunnel behind Reklur’s back. 
“It wasn’t an earthquake or any other natural cause, we know that 
now,” Reklur explained, crossing his arms. “There were two or three 
people here, placing explosives. Some nearby residents actually he ard a 
blast, and all of their approximate times match up. We’re still trying to find 
someone who saw anyone entering the sewers, but no luck so far. The 
cables are being watched by some of my guys, it must have happened on a 
shift change or toilet break or whatever.” 
“Or whatever?” Rick repeated, instead of holding it in. 
“That’s the theory of that idiot over there.” He pointed a thumb at a 
hardworking man behind him. “I think, it could have also been an inside 
job, some of our guys,” he said and nudged an elbow in Rick’s side. 
“That’s a lot more exciting, isn’t it?” 
Rick ignored Reklur’s weird euphoria. “Is it possible to get rid of all the 
bricks and dirt and everything? We’d really like to resurrect our 
connection.” 
Reklur sighed. “We don’t know yet, there’s still a lot we can do here to 
find traces of the intruders. A satanic spell or some voodoo trick we 
haven’t thought of yet.” 
 
200 
“Are you taking this seriously?” Rick said, knowingly trying to insult 
the man, his eyes ablaze. 
“Why yes,” Reklur defended himself. “If I’m like this, you can be sure I 
am taking it super serious, squared.” He patted Rick on his back and 
grinned. “You need more humour in your life, or else you’ll turn into the 
asshole you’re trying not to be.” 
Rick didn’t know whether to laugh or sink his right fist into Reklur’s 
left cheek. 
“This isn’t a murder scene,” Reklur continued. “Else you’d be hearing 
even more jokes. This is how I work.” 
“Fair enough,” Rick said, giving up. “Let us know when you know 
more.” 
“When?” Reklur asked. 
Rick was about to leave and had to face Reklur again. “When you know 
more?” 
“When’s that?” the chief inspector asked. 
“Soon, I hope,” Rick answered. 
Reklur produced a little black appointment book out of his coat, clicked 
a pen and began to write something down. “Let… Rick… know… soon.” 
He shut the book with a bang, and hid both book and pen in his coat. 
“Consider it done,” he said, mockingly. 
Rick left Reklur standing there without another word. As he left the 
scene, he heard a hearty chuckle behind his back. 
 
201 
 
 
 
After four hours of sleep, Kristella slammed the screaming alarm clock 
next to her finely crafted bed. 
There was a foul taste in her mouth, but she hesitated comparing it to 
that of a dead rat. Her eyes opened up against their will, her body moved 
even though it weighed a ton and she yawned and stretched even though 
she’d rather fall back and keep on sleeping for at least two years.  
She stood up, not knowing why. At 7 a.m., the sun on the horizon was 
aggressively shooting sun rays at her through the unbreakable windows, 
tickling the skin. 
The bathroom awaited her with a heated floor and she felt a warming 
feeling crawl up from her toes over her back to her neck and she stood still 
for a minute, swaying back and forth. 
The mirror told her she wasn’t wearing anything. A look over her 
shoulder revealed that her clothes had somehow dropped to the floor in a 
circle around her bed, right after the press had finally had enough.  
Walter had decided to answer every question, even duplicates. Kristella 
still couldn’t believe that - although he had constantly contradicted himself 
- he had continued to be able to form words without stumbling over them. 
Kristella had merely coordinated the interview, pointing at raised hands.  
She was already brushing her teeth before she realized it and in her 
head she went through the storm of words they had endured a few short 
hours ago. 
In the end, they had handled the situation well enough. And by 
answering every question without exception, they had shown patience and 
willingness to participate in a dialog with the public. 
She spat out white foam and continued to brush. 
Whom was she kidding, it was probably a sign that they didn’t take 
their work seriously and had all the time in the world to linger around and 
repeat the same answers for several hours. 
Several hours! 

 
202 
The tooth brush slipped past a back tooth and bruised the inner cheek. 
She pulled it out, moaned angrily, spat again, put away the brush and 
rinsed her mouth. 
Then she stepped into the shower. 
Whatever, right? In the end, they were still the company who had made 
travelling from one end to another possible without much of an 
interruption; they had eradicated the journey and provided access to the 
destination immediately. How cool was that? 
What’s a few missteps, such as, you know, dead people? Who’d give a 
crap in a week, right? 
Thirty minutes later, with a layer of makeup on her face to hide the 
dark shadows below her eyes, and casual clothes that fit nicely, she was on 
her way into the dining hall, where Walter was already sitting and staring 
at the empty table, waiting. 
“Let me guess,” Kristella said while taking a seat opposite to him, her 
chair creaking as she moved it. “You haven’t slept at all.” 
Walter looked up in slow motion. His brain seemed to function at 
normal speed – which compared to mere mortals was still fast – but the 
reaction time of his body had set a new low record. 
As he spoke, his mouth appeared to form words after they had been 
spoken, his tongue floating up and down like a whale. “Sleep… You keep 
mentioning that word.” 
“It’s an ancient invention, actually,” Kristella said. “You should look it 
up. It rivals the awesomeness of instant travelling.” 
Walter guffawed. 
Xave, in his usual salesman attire, and Rick, once again wearing his 
dark blue INSTANT uniform, arrived in the hall and sat down next to 
Walter and Kristella. 
“Good morning,” Xave greeted. 
“Hey,” Rick said. 
“Morning!” Kristella cheered. 
Walter waved, two seconds too late. 
Xave looked at the scientist. “Oh no,” he said. 
“Yep,” Kristella replied, nodding. “Once again a stranger to sleep. Says 
he’s never heard of it.” 
“You know I can’t repair you, right?” Rick said. 
A waiter appeared with four plates seemingly stuck to his arms. “Good 
morning everyone, here’s your daily dose of heart-warming breakfast.” 
 
203 
One plate landed in front of every sitting person, and the smell of 
scrambled eggs and roasted ham seduced their stomachs. The waiter 
disappeared again where he had come from. 
They started eating one after another, except Walter, who made picking 
up his fork a life time effort. 
“You gotta lie down,” Kristella said, munching, pointing with her fork.  
“She’s right, Walter,” Xave agreed. 
Walter turned to Xave like a robot low on energy and a message ran 
from his lips: “I’ve almost fixed Jeremy.” 
“I slept in the same room tonight,” Xave replied. “His life is reduced to 
a wheeze every five seconds.” 
“Shouldn’t we call some relative or something?” Kristella asked. 
“I’m not even sure Jeremy’s his real name,” Xave said. “But you’re 
right, I’ll contact someone he’s related to.” He swallowed, chopped off 
another piece of egg and hovered his filled fork in front of his face. “When 
he’s up again.” He shoved it into his mouth. 
Kristella raised her eyebrows, but before she was able to criticize him, 
her mind had already worked out the reason. “We’ll let the world know 
when it can’t sue us,” she said. 
The biting, swallowing and chewing of the three men were the only 
response. 
Walter had just finished his first bite and continued with the second 
part of his food adventure, with the fork already on its way back to the 
plate. He said: “I can fix him. Almost there.” 
Kristella felt like watching a badly dubbed foreign movie. “How? I 
hope your plan involves at least an hour of sleep. You can’t go on like 
this!” 
Rick finished his plate first and leaned back, wiping his mouth. “She’s 
right.” 
Walter made an annoyed face and continued eating in silence.  
Xave sighed and changed the topic. “I made new friends yesterday.”  
Kristella welcomed the change and chomped on another piece of ham 
with a hearty crust. “Really?” 
“Yep, the family of the girl were real eager to hear that she’s, as they 
said, in a happier place,” Xave told, pushing leftover pieces of eggs to one 
corner and digging it all up with one swipe. “So I guess that’s a new kind 
of service we’re offering. Travel INSTANT, kill your infant! At least, that’s 
what a sign suggested by one happy bystander.” 
Rick chuckled, but in a sad way. 
 
204 
“What about the other family?” Kristella asked, picking up the last egg 
crumb. 
“They weren’t inviting me with open arms, to be frank,” Xave said. 
“You should’ve heard me talk to myself in the car afterwards. Actually, 
scratch that. You would all stop looking at me.” 
All eyes were on Walter now, who was wrestling the god of food.  
“What about the conference?” Xave asked. 
“Well,” Kristella said, gesturing at Walter. “They drained all his blood.”  
Xave patted Walter on his back and grinned. 
“Oh yeah, I already told Xave about it,” Rick began. “Chief inspector 
Reklur is working on the case with the broken cable and the theft of the 
Vowkinn booth.” 
Walter spit out half his hard-earned ham. “Theft?” 
“Yep, it’s gone,” Rick said. 
Walter’s chin hung to the floor, letting Kristella see what he had already 
carefully chewed on. 
Then the scientist suddenly woke up. “What?! How… How is that 
possible? Weren’t they drilled to the ground?” 
“We were planning on doing that,” Rick explained. “But we assured 
ourselves that the connections were thick and strong enough to make any 
attempts at stealing them impossible. Remember?” 
Walter let his fork fall on his plate and hid his face in his palms. 
“How big of a deal is this?” Kristella asked. “Nobody’s going to be able 
to do anything with it, right?” 
Walter spread his fingers and two dark eyes peered at her through 
them. “A nobody might not be able to understand it, no.” He removed his 
hands, but somehow, a shadow remained in his eyes. “There could always 
be competition, though; other people, trying to race against us.”  
“There was this company that tried to compete,” Xave said. “But the y 
were just full of crap.” 
“So, you think they returned to steal our tech to produce it 
themselves?” Rick asked. 
“Possible,” Xave said. “You say this Reklur guy is handling both 
cases?” 
Rick nodded. “Yes.” 
“Any mention to the press?” Kristella asked. 
 
205 
Xave, once again, let out a sigh. “Our technology kills people and we ’re 
losing that technology to others we don’t even know. That sounds like a 
headline in the making.” He shook his head and continued before anybody 
could say anything. “Don’t say a word,” he said, pointing at Kristella. 
“They will write about people not being able to travel from or to Vowkinn 
at the moment, there will be rumours, some witness reports, but we won ’t 
comment.” His finger aimed at Rick. “You grab one of the new booths 
from floor six and install it instead of the stolen one. Get it working as fast 
as possible and resume business. Attach it to the ground with a hundred 
screws, if you must. Do that to all other booths. These things must not be 
able to be lifted from Mother Earth again, unless you blow them to pieces 
with a nuclear bomb.” 
“Or for maintenance,” Walter chimed in. 
“Or for maintenance,” Xave repeated, his finger still pointing at Rick. 
“And you, Walter,” Xave said, poking the scientist’s shoulder. “I’ll get you 
an assistant.” 
“No,” Walter objected. 
“Yes,” Kristella said. “Good idea.” 
“If you find someone who’s okay with being imprisoned for eternity, go 
ahead,” Walter jested. 
“Don’t think you’re the only one being okay with that,” Xave said. “I’ll 
find someone, you’ll see.” 
“Are we still going to look at the teenager corpses?” Rick asked. 
“I have to,” Walter answered, his eyes shutting down again. “I’m 
obligated to inspect them, even if just out of respect. They died because of 
me.” 
“Nuh-uh,” Xave intervened. “They died because they were stupid. 
We’ve established that.” 
Walter ignored him, dozing off. “But first I need to fix Jeremy.”  
“What do I do except the usual stuff, like answering calls and not 
telling anyone anything?” Kristella asked, with her hand raised at shoulder 
height. 
Xave seemed to know just the right thing. “Ring up Petar and Isela, see 
if you can sustain their financial support for a while longer. We’re not sure 
yet how much payment people are going to accept for using the best way 
to travel. Maybe ask them for suggestions. They’ll like that.” 
Walter opened his eyes to stare at his cold food. “God damn it. I got 
another idea.” 
 
206 
 
 
 
After leaving the van to its own fate in the suburbs of Vowkinn, Bellward 
Leonard, Mardo, and Timony walked the rest of the way to their hideout. 
As they passed a giant green statue standing next to an ancient building 
surrounded by mighty pillars, Timony hugged himself tightly and said: 
“We’re gonna get caught, I can feel it in my fucking bones.” 
“Keep your pessimistic crap to yourself,” Bellward bellowed. 
They were marching in a single file on the narrow sidewalk. Cars shot 
by in the early morning sun. 
Leonard tucked on his blue outfit. “They may remember our faces,” he 
dared to mention. 
Bellward, who was walking in front of Leonard, shrugged with his 
mountainous shoulders. “It’s not like the world’s fond of my face, 
anyhow.” 
Carrying the treasure box wrapped in parts of his uniform, Mardo said: 
“With this money we can lay low for a while, I think.” 
“Ya think?” Timony asked, looking nervously left and right. “Why 
didn’t you think before we executed your plan?” 
“You were the one who was so eager to just do it, remember?” Mardo 
shot back. 
“Well shit, ain’t you the clever one now,” Timony said. 
“I’ll tell Verayne to sew your lips together when we’re home,” Bellward 
said. “That’ll teach ya.” 
“At least I’m speaking my mind,” Timony countered. 
“Well, your mind’s full of shit.” Bellward pointed to his right. “This 
way.” 
Everyone followed. 
They passed dozens of houses, built right next to each other, most not 
being more than five storeys high. For another half an hour they saw 
nothing but streets, pedestrians, cars, taxis, busses and tramways.  
“To think all these things could disappear,” Leonard said, more or less 
to himself. 

 
207 
“It’s kinda neat, right?” Mardo added from behind him. “And we held 
the technology in our hands!” 
Leonard looked at a handful of people flocking into an overloaded bus, 
which groaned with exhaustion. 
Another ten minutes later and Leonard started recognizing his 
surroundings, just as Bellward announced: “Here we are.” 
They entered the hideout through the secret entrance and greeted 
Verayne, Chawlee and Marla. 
“You made it!” Verayne said, hugging everyone - except Leonard. 
“You guys are in the news,” Chawlee said, with a slightly worried 
expression, still sitting on a chair next to Marla. 
“Really?” Mardo asked. 
“Yes,” Verayne confirmed. “People might not remember your faces, but 
they sure remember how you knocked one guard down with that 
invention.” 
Bellward crossed his arms, flexing his muscles. “He wouldn’t stop 
yapping.” 
Chawlee stood up. “How much did Einstein give you?” 
Mardo handed him the shiny box. “There’s money inside. It’s about 
forty-five thousand Schilling.” His father held the box while Mardo 
opened it for him. 
Chawlee grabbed the money and let his thumb run through the bundle. 
“Mother and I agreed that we should probably leave Vowkinn.” 
“What?” Mardo asked, his face shocked and sad. “But this is the perfect 
place! This is my home!” 
“Yeah, the fuck, man?” Timony disagreed. Bellward slapped the back 
of his head. 
“The news report said that they set a certain Detective Reklur on the 
case,” Chawlee explained. “You guys should remember him.”  
“Oh god, that asshat?” Timony shouted. 
“Unsurprisingly, we did strike a nerve,” Chawlee said. 
Bellward shook his head and Mardo sat down. 
“Leonard,” Chawlee said, addressing the man with the long hair. 
“Yes?” Leonard answered. 
Chawlee counted a small fragment of the money he was holding in his 
hands and stretched it out towards Leonard, who hesitantly took it with 
two fingers. “Please don’t take this personally, but you should leave us. In 
fact, I believe it’s simply better for you.” 
 
208 
Leonard understood fairly well. “No worries,” he said. Although they 
had been like a family to him, he knew there was a reason not to get too 
close to them and be prepared to jump ship whenever necessary. He just 
didn’t expect the ship to sail away from under him first. “And thank you.” 
“You were a part of this, so that money is yours anyway,” Chawlee 
said. 
Leonard saw Marla fidgeting around behind Chawlee. 
“We already packed all the things we can carry,” Verayne said. “We 
were just waiting and hoping you’d return safely and soon.” 
Chawlee nodded. “Now that you’re here, we shouldn’t waste more 
time.” 
“We’re leaving already?” Mardo asked, beside himself. 
Poor guy’s probably thinking it’s his fault, Leonard thought. 
“In that case,” Leonard intervened, “I shall depart right away.” 
Mardo stared at Leonard with an open mouth. 
Leonard shook everybody’s hand, except Marla’s who he waved at from 
afar. “It was a pleasure being a part of your family for the last few days. I 
will hold the memories dear.” 
Chawlee patted Leonard’s shoulder. “If we had known you a little 
longer, I could trust you more. I really hope you understand.” 
“I do,” Leonard reassured. “Trust is not easily won.” 
“Maybe we’ll meet again,” Mardo said, now standing. 
Leonard grinned, holding up his cash, gently waving it in the air. 
“Maybe.” 
Then he exited the hideout and walked towards the train station. 
 
209 
 
 
 
Against all good advice he’d heard the past few hours, Walter hadn’t slept 
one bit. 
He was sitting on the ground of his suite, surrounded by piles of paper. 
His fingernails were black from the dozens of pencils he had used, half of 
which were resting behind him, reduced to mere stumps. There was sweat 
on his forehead, so much in fact that it looked like he had just stepped out 
of a shower. His teeth were showing, creaking against each other, his chin 
was moving left and right like a saw trying to cut a tree. He wrote so 
quickly, his hand was a blur. 
Nothing he wrote lasted long, for all the numbers and symbols the 
pencil would emit were thrown away within seconds. 
Walter yelled out loud. He rubbed his temple with both of his hands, 
smearing the black pencil color all over his cheeks. 
It just doesn’t work. There is no logical solution. 
An old notebook Walter had written when he was sixteen years old sat 
next to him, opened up to a random page that showed sketches of a device 
almost identical to the ones that were currently serving hundreds of people 
and their needs to get to their destinations as quickly as possible, as 
instantly as possible. 
Hundreds of people. 
And if fate would have its sadistic ways, they were all travelling to hell. 
Walter flung through his wall of papers that he had built, jumped to his 
feet, and with a scream he jumped to his right and attacked the bullet -
proof window with his pencil. 
The wooden writing tool burst at its tip. 
Stars at the bottom of the night - the lights of the living city - filled 
Walter’s eyes. His right hand stood still in the air with the pencil at the 
window’s heart. 
Walter looked down. 
The black knob in the dead rat’s head stared at him reproachfully. 
“Not enough time,” Walter said through his teeth. 

 
210 
Violently, he grabbed the rodent with his bare hand, letting the pencil 
drop to where the rat had been lying, and bolted towards the phone, 
twitching his fingers to enter Xave’s room number. 
“Pick up,” he yelled, almost hysterically. 
“What,” Xave answered, after Walter’s universe had collapsed. 
“Get Jeremy down to floor five,” Walter commanded. “Now.” 
On the way out Walter managed to throw away the receiver and pick 
up his notebook filled with loose papers in one motion with his left hand. 
He stormed into the hallway and called for the elevator by squeezing the 
life out of the button. 
He danced on his feet, the rat’s fur tickling his hand. Infuriated, he 
tucked the old book under his right armpit and punched the elevator 
button with his left knuckles. Five times, six times, until blood appeared 
from underneath his pale skin. 
The elevator graciously arrived. 
Walter practically was inside the lift before the doors were open the 
tiniest bit, and pushing buttons again. 
“Down, down, down,” the scientist’s mouth spat. “I don’t have time for 
this.” 
As the doors of the elevator closed in an awful, sleep inducing speed, 
Walter had to restrict his anger enough to not squeeze the rat’s corpse too 
much. 
The elevator music almost lulled Walter to sleep. He staggered, then 
adrenaline shot back into his bloodstream and his eyelids ripped open 
again, revealing eyes that were showing the world what being tired 
actually meant. 
Walter wasn’t on his feet anymore, he was flying. He wasn’t conscious, 
he was somewhere else, controlling his body remotely. 
“Oh god, who invented this,” Walter exclaimed and kicked the metal 
door in front of him, which now reflected a misshapen face of the scientist.  
The elevator happily and patiently announced its arrival on the fifth 
floor with the noise of a bell and tried to open its doors, but only the one 
that hadn’t been kicked succeeded to slide aside. 
Walter leaped out, the tail of the rat flailing away from his grip and two 
loose papers fleeing from the book in a high arch. 
Floor number five, just like number six, was reserved for building 
booths. Walls of previous suites had been taken down; now the floor was 
simply a large area with supporting pillars here and there. 
 
211 
Ghostly glass tubes, fat cables, and heaps of electronics were lying 
about, hardly illuminated by a handful of lamps on the ground and spare 
lights on the ceiling. 
Walter found two booths which he had already prepared for different 
experiments; updates to the core ability of instant travelling. He had to 
make a few adjustments now, according to his calculations. 
Not many. 
In fact, so few it was almost bafflingly simple. Yet again, simple was 
rarely convincing to a complex mind, and changing one minor variable 
could always result in a devastating chain reaction. 
The elevator arrived again, almost without Walter noticing it. 
Xave stumbled outside, carrying Jeremy around his back with his arms 
under Jeremy’s thighs. 
“Walter,” Xave said, out of breath, coming closer to the scientist. “I ’m 
feeling sick. I’ve only slept like an hour. How come you haven’t vomited 
all over the place already?” 
Walter, already at work, fighting cables and wires and conductors and 
resistors, just shook his head. “Put him down here.” 
Xave gasped for air as he let Jeremy down to the ground as gently as 
possible. Jeremy hit the ground with a thud and wheezed. 
The salesman looked at the Trekkie. “What have we done to that poor 
bastard.” 
Jeremy replied by wringing in agony and coughing blood. Xave looked 
away. 
“Step back,” Walter announced. 
This better work, Walter thought. I hope I was right. 
He grabbed the rat and threw it into the right booth, where it hit the 
back of the glass and slid down to the base. 
“Close it,” Walter shouted at Xave, pointing a finger. “And the other 
one too.” 
Xave did as he was told, stepping over a puddle of Jeremy’s bodily 
fluids. 
Walter fiddled around with cables, a spark appeared between his 
fingers; thankfully at this point he didn’t feel anything anymore. Finally, 
the electronic thing he had assembled was pushed underneath the booth 
with the rat in it until it clicked into place. A provisory console next to it 
with cables protruding left and right, was victim to Walter’s fingers as they 
hacked away at it like vultures. 
“Do you even know what you’re typing without a screen?” Xave 
commented. 
 
212 
Walter jotted down a key, like God putting a finger down on Earth. 
“Jesus,” Xave said, holding both of his hands in front of his face, as a 
sudden light appeared from the rat’s glass coffin. Hiding behind his hands 
seemed enough at first, but then he looked away entirely. 
Walter, however, glared at his light. It was no match for him. 
The second booth flared up, the noise almost unbearable. 
Xave didn’t know whether to shut his ears or eyes or just run away. 
“Walter!” he screamed, trying to shoot words against the booth’s aural 
attacks. “What are you doing?” 
If he hadn’t known better, Xave surely felt the ground shaking and 
falling apart. As he tumbled backwards and landed on his back – the world 
around him went dark and silent. 
He opened his eyes and watched the pattern on the ceiling. For a 
minute, he thought he had seen stars. 
Walter appeared in his vision, stepping in front of a light and appearing 
only as a black shadow. Xave blinked at him. 
“It worked,” the scientist said, offering a hand to help Xave stand up. “I 
can save Jeremy now.” 
Xave pulled himself up with Walter’s help and dusted off his suit. “I 
like the sound of that, Walter,” he said and shook his head rigorously, 
trying to regain his right ear’s hearing ability. “But maybe you better wait 
until I’m out of the building before you hit that key again.” 
Walter chuckled. “There’s no time for that.” 
Xave realized what Walter meant when he saw Jeremy again. “How is 
he still alive?” 
Walter sighed and gestured Xave to grab Jeremy’s feet, while the 
scientist pulled up the man’s arms. Together they squeezed the dying 
human into the booth, which had previously contained the rat. 
“Where’s the rodent?” Xave asked, stuffing Jeremy’s foot inside and 
closing the booth. 
“There,” Walter said, pointing over his shoulder. 
Xave looked at the ground and saw a rat with its intestines spilled 
around it. 
Actual, normal intestines. 
Walter fed the console with input and before Xave could make a run for 
it – he hit that key again. 
“Oh god,” Xave said, but he was prepared this time. He stuffed his 
head in his coat and waited for the firework spectacle to be over.  
 
213 
Walter examined Jeremy for the whole process through the blinding 
light, as if gazing at the center of the sun, straining his eyeballs until tears 
dropped from his cheeks. 
At the height of the noise and light show, Jeremy’s body disappeared 
and was reassembled in the other booth. 
Calmness returned and Walter opened the booth containing Jeremy, 
who fell to his knees. The man inhaled, seemingly tasting air for the first 
time ever, then he stood up, tripped over his own feet, vomited and passed 
out. 
Walter turned to Xave and grinned with relief. 
 
214 
 
 
 
Kristella wasn’t of the sort to care much for food; nowadays she ate to stop 
her stomach from interrupting unannounced meetings with angry grow ls. 
Sitting in her suite, she chopped a triangular piece of dark chocolate 
cake into bite-sized pieces and moved a forkful towards her mouth. 
To the left of her small plate, she went over a small pile of papers, filled 
with various facts of Walter’s and Xave’s new ideas to bring in some 
money. 
Xave had just barged in, telling her, with an exhausted face, that 
Walter’s experiment had worked, and Kristella was to go ahead with the 
plan. 
It was almost midnight; Isela had assured her that she would still be in 
her office until at least 2 a.m. and that she wouldn’t have to wait. 
Her left hand drew a quick thin line at the bottom of a table of numbers 
and Kristella stood up, leaving the rest of the cake behind. 
She took the elevator – the incredibly slow elevator – up to floor 
number seven, where Rick was probably still working his butt off, while 
yearning to be with his family. 
As she went down the hallway towards the control room, her mother ’s 
voice in her head resounded: “What’s with you and your inability to have 
relationships? It’s not that hard, look at your father! Even he managed to 
help me make you.” 
“Yeah, yeah,” Kristella mumbled to herself, or rather to her mother. 
There was no need to force herself into some random guy’s arms, just to 
sustain the growth of human population; she always assumed the world 
could just as well go on without her help. 
“Knock, knock,” she said, while hitting the door with her fine -boned 
knuckles twice. 
“Yeah,” Rick responded from inside. 
“Hey,” Kristella said while entering the room, papers under her right 
arm. 
“What’s up?” 

 
215 
“Going to visit Isela.” 
Rick was resting his feet in front of one of the monitors, reading a book.  
“You’re not working?” Kristella asked. 
“Sure, just letting the computer do its thing,” Rick said, without losi ng 
focus. 
Kristella gestured at the booth. “Is it okay if I…” 
“Oh yeah, sure, hang on.” Rick shut the book and flung it on the table. 
“Go on in, I’ll send you over.” 
Kristella stepped inside the booth; Rick closed the lid with his right 
hand while typing away on a small console with his left. 
He looked tired, Kristella realized. “How’s your son?” she asked, her 
voice echoing loudly around her. Rick probably wasn’t hearing her clear 
enough. 
“He’s fine,” Rick said, looked up at her, drew up one corner of his 
mouth and sent Kristella away with the push of a button. 
Being torn apart and pieced together didn’t sound very romantic and 
certainly felt weird, like a needle stuck underneath your skin, being turned 
left and right. It felt wrong. The darkness that lasted maybe a second, 
maybe a day still seemed otherworldly. She used to wonder if people who 
had hopped on a train for the first time had ever felt the same, the limits of 
speed being challenged more and more. Or the first human to take flight, 
had they also felt like breaking the laws of nature? 
A large group of people appeared in front of her, the city hall of 
Taresville in the background. A guard opened the booth and helped her 
outside. 
“Good evening, Ms. Attenburg,” the guard greeted her. She simply 
nodded with a smile in return and continued to make her way through the 
waiting travellers. 
She crossed the street, went up the stairs, looking at the two statues that 
pointed randomly at the night sky and walked inside. 
Through the maze in the city hall, she arrived at Isela’s office in the 
right wing of the building. 
The obligatory twin bodyguards stood outside, left and right, looking at 
her curiously. They both recognized her, the left one opened the door and 
let Kristella in. 
Isela was on the phone, speaking gibberish in another language. One of 
the two secretaries was holding a paper down on the table for Isela to sign, 
while the other one was sitting at a smaller table in the adjacent room, as 
Kristella witnessed through the heavy wooden door that stood ope n. 
 
216 
Isela saw Kristella and gestured her to sit down. The mayoress’ makeup 
was thick, her green eyes accented by long fake eyelashes, her silver 
wristwatch dangling off her writing hand. 
Six signatures later, the secretary left the room, sitting down opposi te to 
the other assistant on her own even smaller table. 
Kristella noticed herself fidgeting around on her soft seat and forced 
her right leg to stop bouncing. With several foreign words in her ears, she 
gazed at the walls, which were plastered with photos of Isela posing with 
celebrities like presidents, actors, musicians and random politicians 
Kristella had seen in the news before. Other decorations included family 
photos, trophies, awards, certificates and newspaper articles, praising her 
involvement in various projects. 
Isela hung up. “What an ass,” she fumed, then she looked at Kristella 
and her face cheered up instantly. “Ms. Attenburg, thank you for coming.” 
She straightened her posture, her leather chair imitating a throne.  
“Thank you for having me at this late hour, Mrs. Mantorry,” Kristella 
said. “As you said previously, financial matters must not wait.”  
“Indeed, indeed, we all know time is money and time stops for no one,” 
the mayoress said. She didn’t let her hands rest one second, always 
shuffling papers and creating small staples or throwing notes in the trash 
after crumpling them in her skinny hand. 
“As I said on the phone, we have come up with an idea to help our 
company start standing on its own feet,” Kristella began. She laid out her 
papers in front of her, one after another. “Several ideas, in fact.” 
“Oooh,” Isela said, bored or excited; Kristella couldn’t tell. 
“All ideas are based on offering a premium service along with keeping 
up the free model.” 
“So, everyone can still use it, good,” Isela nodded in agreement, 
checking out the papers in front of her. 
“Yes, just so we don’t anger our current customers.” Kristella cleared 
her throat. She hadn’t even started to explain and her mouth was already 
dry. 
“And what sort of premium services have you come up with?” Isela 
asked, licking her thumb and index finger before turning another page. 
“Immediate instant travelling?” 
Kristella knew better than to chuckle in response. “Actually, yes, 
something like that. Well, the first service we would like to offer for a 
monthly fee of 100 Schilling gets you priority over everyone without that 
service when standing in line.” 
 
217 
Isela’s mouth drew a crooked line. “What if ten premium people stand 
in line?” 
“It’s still faster than being the 50th in line,” Kristella countered. 
“Actually, according to our statistics in peak hours the lines grow up to 300 
people long, usually to Vowkinn in the morning, and from Vowkinn in the 
evening. People are standing around two street corners sometimes.”  
Isela looked up. “Who’s actually waiting that long?” 
“If you think about it, from Vowkinn to Taresville it’s still two hours by 
train, and not everybody owns a car.” Kristella’s hands were cold and 
sweaty by now. She hated it when her body did that. There was no need to 
be so nervous, everything was under control. 
Then again, everything could go wrong too, which is why she didn ’t 
fully understand why Xave kept on sending her to meetings like this.  
“Isela likes you,” Xave had used to argue. “She doesn’t like men very 
much.” 
For a moment Kristella thought Isela had heard her thoughts. 
“Two hours, and they wait in line for how long?” Isela asked after three 
seconds of silence. 
“One person takes approximately ten to fifteen seconds, including the 
time of positioning oneself in the booth and stepping out on the other 
end.” Kristella joined her hands in front of her right knee, and let go of it 
immediately when she realized that it was uncomfortable. She gestured 
through the air, instead. “So, with 300 people in line, you maybe wait an 
hour – but don’t forget, it’s also free.” 
“Ha, yes, nothing beats free, I suppose,” Isela acknowledged. “I still 
think that there will be a myriad of people going for premium.” 
“We’re adding another service, which we like to call Time Machine,” 
Kristella said anxiously. 
“What?” 
“Walter discovered a new feature, a sort of side effect of his creation.” 
Kristella leaned forward. She hated that dress she was wearing as it was 
way too tight at the top, but she continued to ignore it. “During the 
travelling process, the information of your body is preserved and saved; 
only temporarily until now, but for premium users, he will save that 
imprint for later use.” 
“Later use?” Isela asked, probably already guessing what came next.  
Kristella nodded. “At any given time you can tell a guard to restore a 
previous state of your body and mind.” 
Isela chuckled, then a second later she actually realized what Kristella 
had said. “You mean…” 
 
218 
“We’re not sure what it will mean. The possibilities are endless,” 
Kristella said in her business voice. 
Isela looked up at the wall. Kristella followed her eyes and saw a photo 
of a young child. 
“So, what you’re saying is…” Isela began, now looking at Kristella 
again, a little bit of disbelief in her eyes. 
“It does work,” Kristella promised. “Walter just successfully sent an old 
friend of him back. Or rather, he sent a young friend to the future.”  
Isela’s eyes sharpened. “One doesn’t remember anything, correct?” 
“Walter,” Kristella began, looking at the ground, then up again. “Mr. 
Trimond has explained it to me like this: It’s exactly the same as stepping 
into a booth and exiting on the other end, you don’t even notice a 
difference. Your current self will be returned to the saved constellation.”  
“Which means, you can be forever young?” 
“Mr. Trimond has assured me that it can’t possibly be prolonged 
further than nature allows. Meaning, you will still die after a certain 
amount of years.” 
“How come?” Isela let herself fall back in her puffy chair. “If it’s my old 
self, or, well, actually my young self, how is it any different from the actual 
young self?” 
Xave hadn’t told her details about that and in fact she hadn’t even been 
speaking to Walter directly. Kristella had only heard a few shaky words 
coming out of Xave’s tired mouth. But the meeting still had to be today, for 
some reason. 
Kristella suppressed a yawn and came up with some reasonably 
tangible explanation, deliberately ignoring talking in probabilities. “It still 
uses the same flesh, the same cells, and according to aging theories, there ’s 
a genetic code that causes cells to die naturally. It’s evolution’s way of 
getting rid of the old and introduce the new.” 
Walter would probably kill himself right now, Kristella thought. 
To her surprise, Isela bought her explanation. “Interesting.” 
Isela’s phone rang and one of her secretaries in the other room took the 
call. 
“That opens up…” Isela searched for words. 
“Possibilities,” Kristella repeated. 
“A can of worms,” the mayoress corrected her. “It’s… going to be 
chaotic, a legal mess. People can change appearances on the fly, be kids 
again, teenagers, without the memories of the already experienced 
adulthood. It’s like…” 
 
219 
Kristella smiled as she continued that thought in her head. “It ’s like 
you’re able to start anew, to try things for the first time once again, forget 
things.” 
“I can’t believe I’m hearing this,” Isela said. “I can’t believe I’m actually 
considering this.” 
They said nothing for a while, listening to the one-sided dialogue in the 
other room. 
Then Isela shot forwards in her chair. “100 Schilling is too cheap. That’s 
roughly 3 Schilling per day, to be able to…” She rhythmically tapped the 
desk with her nails. 
“We actually thought 100 Schilling just includes being able to travel 
before all others not paying for premium, and automatically saving your 
current state. When you actually want to access a previous state and travel 
back to it, it should cost 5000 Schilling.” 
Isela let that sum work in her mind, then she said: “Double that.”  
Kristella noted down a few words on her paper. “We have two other 
ideas.” 
“Yes?” Isela was all ears. 
“We could install similar devices in post offices to send parcels and 
letters more quickly,” Kristella said while looking at her list. “Sorry, I 
meant immediately, of course.” 
“Of course,” Isela said. “I like that.” 
“Fees are still to be determined,” Kristella continued. “We don’t even 
know if we should reach out to existing post offices or simply offer that 
service directly through our INSTANT stations.” 
“Cooperating with existing companies is fine, especially with the ones 
already experienced in that field,” Isela added. 
“Right.” Kristella’s mouth was as dry as a desert now, her tongue a 
thirsty animal shuffling through the dunes. “We’d also like to work with 
bigger cargo, we’re thinking truck, train, ship and plane deliveries.” 
Isela chuckled. 
“Is there something I said?” Kristella asked, slightly unhinged. 
“No, no,” Isela said, patting the air. “I just thought of the irony of 
sending a car from one continent to another via instant travelling.”  
“Oh,” Kristella said, not knowing whether to laugh or not. 
Isela inhaled and exhaled deeply, looking at her silver wristwatch. “Tell 
you what,” she said. “I’ll have to sleep over this. Though, no need to 
worry, you definitely have my continued support until you are able to 
stand on your own feet.” 
 
220 
Kristella was relieved. “Thank you.” She stood up and corrected her 
skirt. “Please wait with any announcements, we would like to make sure 
this card is played as delicately and carefully as possible.” 
“You have my word,” Isela said with a raised hand, the diamond on 
her ring breaking up the light. 
 
221 
 
 
 
As he saw Jeremy being hauled onto his bed by two of the bodyguards, 
Xave finally admitted to himself that travelling appalled him. 
The notion of being torn into pieces sounded terrifying. He trusted 
Walter, he knew the device worked, but only to a certain degree. 
Something felt entirely wrong, unnatural. 
For a few hours Xave watched Jeremy on his bed while doing some 
paperwork, mundane preparations for upcoming meetings with several 
(sometimes self-declared) important higher-ups that got wind of the scent 
of instant travelling. The smell of opportunity, money, fame; finally getting 
that entry into the history books. Hopping aboard the bandwagon as long 
as it’s popular. 
Like those god-damn Tamagotchis every kid has to have nowadays. 
Walter was in bed, at least that’s where Xave had ordered him to go to 
after seeing the scientist almost collapse. 
Kristella was still out to talk to Isela, although Xave realized that she 
should’ve been back by now. 
After preparing several keywords and phrases to woo soon-to-be 
cooperative business partners, Xave started working on a speech. It wasn ’t 
his job anymore; Kristella had turned out to possess a knack for that kind 
of stuff. But he felt like doing it. At least Kristella would always be able to 
touch it up later on. 
But this – this felt big. Another need discovered, another need being 
filled. He definitely wanted a part in the wording of that message.  
Something like: “Now it is possible to look like your sixteen-year-old 
self again; in case we have a backup of you, that is.” 
In the distant future they could allow jumping into completely different 
bodies, just for kicks. And a high price. Before going to bed, Walter had 
reassured him that it would work, but Xave would have to fight enough 
ethical debates for now and didn’t want to waste more time and nerves. 
Your parents could look like babies again and you’re supposed to be the grown-
up kid of a newborn... 

 
222 
He massaged his temples. Maybe they really shouldn’t mention that. 
Okay, Isela already knew it, so what. 
Ever since offering Walter a deal, Xave hadn’t doubted his own abilities 
to handle anything, but this – 
This would change the world twice in two short years. Would it spook 
people? Xave reminded himself of the death threats and actual murder 
attempts. Would they even survive announcing this new thing, this new 
life style? 
Jeremy moaned and suddenly sat upright. “Jesus,” he groaned, 
kneading his cheeks as if they needed to be woken up separately. 
“Hey Jeremy,” Xave said, standing up and walking towards him. “How 
are you feeling?” 
Jeremy looked at his hands, seemingly for the first time. “Fine! I ’m still 
in one piece. It worked, it worked!” 
“So it seems. Are you in pain?” Xave sat down next to him on the bed. 
“No, man, I feel awesome! Although – why did I wake up on this bed? 
Is this your bed?” 
“Yes, that’s my bed, actually,” Xave said. “But don’t worry, I rarely use 
it. I’m a couch sleeper. Helps me think.” 
“Oh, good, so you didn’t do something nasty to me while I was out.” 
“Nah. Well…” 
“Well – what?” Jeremy looked worried. “How long was I out?” 
Xave realized he hadn’t talked to Walter about which version of the 
truth Jeremy should hear. He improvised. 
“Two years,” Xave said. 
Jeremy was stunned, then he loosened up again and looked all excited. 
“Two years? That would mean I basically travelled into the future!”  
Xave didn’t expect that kind of reaction. “Yeah, you could say that.” 
“But wait, what happened in the past two years? Have my parents 
called?” 
“No, we thought it best to wait and ask you about their phone 
number,” Xave said, trying to keep a straight face. “We never really knew 
your exact identity.” 
“Huh,” Jeremy said. “Okay, I’m starting to get a little confused here. 
You weren’t joking right now?” 
“Which part?” 
“That I’ve been lying here in your bed for two years.” 
“Frankly, that’s not true at all.” 
 
223 
Jeremy sighed with relief. “You had me there for a second, man. That’s 
not cool.” He looked around and saw the skyline outside the windows. 
“Where am I, though? This is not Walter’s basement.” 
“Jeremy, you did lose two years of your life,” Xave admitted. “You 
came to us three days ago with stomach pains and Walter realized that you 
were about to die.” 
“What? No, no, no, I spent the last several days playing on our Super 
NES with my little brother all day long. I’m on vacation this week and I 
promised him to be home soon, but I had to visit you guys and see if that 
invention is real.” 
“It is real, and for two years you were celebrated as the first human 
being to have travelled instantly,” Xave assured him and patted his back.  
“Okay, so then what happened?” 
“You did a little gig every now and then, appearing for interviews, 
random shows, that kind of stuff, until slowly people let go of you and let 
you live your normal life again. But – as I said – two years later, or rather, 
three days ago, you appeared on our doorstep. Walter fixed you and here 
you are.” 
“He fixed me?” 
“Yes.” 
“Okay, I’m trying to imagine myself in agony – is that correct?” 
“So to speak.” 
“And I come to visit you guys – why not the hospital?” 
“I guess you had your reasons. Probably because you knew this wasn’t 
a normal thing happening with your body.” 
Jeremy frowned. “But Walter knew how to fix me?” 
“You’re here, aren’t you?” 
“Why can’t I remember anything?” 
Xave bit the inside of his cheek. “You were reset, basically. Walter used 
a backup to reconstruct your body from when it was still fully intact.”  
Jeremy looked at his hands and touched his belly and chest. “I lived 
two years and I don’t have a clue about it and now I’m the same again that 
I was two years ago?” 
“That sums it up, yes. You got it.” 
Kristella walked into the room without knocking. “Hey Xave, and oh – 
Jeremy’s awake!” She let her purse drop to the ground. 
“Did something happen to you?” Xave asked. “I thought you meant to 
be here two hours ago.” 
 
224 
“Yeah,” Kristella said, sitting down on the back of the sofa opposite to 
the bed. “There were so many people in front of the Taresville station that I 
decided to just take a Taxi.” 
“But the maintenance line-” 
“I hate getting all those looks when I just walk past them,” Kristella 
said. “I also needed a little time to think things through. But then the taxi 
got stuck in a traffic jam and I had to listen to the driver telling me about 
his fears of losing his job because of ‘that beaming pile of crap’.” 
“I imagine he’s not the only one,” Xave added. “I’ve already made a list 
of people that could be affected by the emergence of instant travelling as 
the number one means of transportation.” 
“And who’s on it?” Kristella asked. 
“I stopped after an hour of writing down job titles.” 
“That’s encouraging.” She looked at Jeremy. “How are you feeling?”  
“I feel almost exactly the same as two years ago,” Jeremy answered. “I 
haven’t decided yet whether that’s cool or not.” 
“Are you planning to sue us?” Kristella asked him. 
“No, my train of thoughts hasn’t arrived there yet,” Jeremy said. “It’s 
still between the stations Kill-Everyone and Shrug-It-Off.” 
“I understand, Jeremy,” Kristella said. “You lost two years’ worth of 
memories.” 
“You know, that’s not that big of a deal. I’m not leading a very eventful 
life,” Jeremy said. 
Kristella chuckled, so did Xave, but he thought he had caught a glimpse 
of sarcasm. 
Jeremy stood up. “What the-” His knees gave in and he landed face 
down on the ground, next to Kristella’s purse. 
Xave helped him up and let him sit down on the bed again. “I imagine 
your body’s still weak from yesterday,” Xave tried to explain, 
paraphrasing bits of Walter’s mumbling the night before. 
“But I thought-” 
“You’re not your actual old self from two years ago, you just look the 
same and feel the same,” Xave said. 
“Oh,” Jeremy said and spit out a vile laugh. “Okay, as soon as I can 
stand on my own feet again, I’m out of here and I don’t want to see any of 
you guys ever again.” He forcefully fell back onto the bed, and while 
glaring at the ceiling he said in a bitter tone: “I’m done with beaming.” 
Xave looked at Kristella, opened his mouth to say something to Jeremy, 
then decided against it. 
 
225 
 
 
 
After two days of sleeping below a staircase in a dark alley and aimlessly 
wandering around, Leonard decided to go back home; a town called St. 
Frank. 
He still possessed 550 Schilling, and now that he knew where to go, he 
was glad he hadn’t spent it all on some random bed and breakfast hotel. 
The funny thing was that he had grown accustomed to Vowkinn and he 
remembered one of his rules: Don’t stay in one place for too long. The fact that 
it had been a week suddenly scared him. 
Vowkinn was quite different in size compared to other towns in 
Lostarichi. Since Leonard had been moving around, he calmed himself 
down with the thought that he hadn’t stayed in one place anyhow. 
And yet – his body had built up a base level of awareness. 
He walked through crowded streets, enjoying the freedom of not 
having to think quickly to acquire money for something to eat. He had 
bought small rations, mostly crispbread and cookies, and had filled his 
plastic bottle with fresh water at a nearby fountain. All of it was stored 
away in his coat pockets. 
The train station that would let him travel back home was still half an 
hour away and he enjoyed the fading autumn sun on his skin. 
He couldn’t remember which kind of potential he had seen in those 
instant travelling devices. Maybe some sort of quick escape? Not possible, 
too heavily monitored, too crowded, too distinct. Might as well leave a 
thick trail of money after robbing the bank. 
St. Frank would do him good. Not that his parents were still alive, or 
anyone else of his non-existent family, but he enjoyed the nostalgic feelings 
it provided him. 
His long hair rode the wind, his coat dancing along. He evaded people 
left and right; people talking to each other, people in groups with a dozen 
bags in their hands, children and their parents, pupils and students of 
various sizes, and beggars. 

 
226 
Normally he would’ve given away some money to people of his kind – 
well, maybe some of them weren’t his kind– but he already felt too 
vulnerable, as if highlighted by a spotlight in the crowd. 
The more he thought about it, the quicker his feet moved. 
At first he stopped for red lights blocking the way, but the closer he got 
to the train station, the more simply he dismissed the signals. 
He had to go home. 
A quarter of an hour later, he approached the train station; a giant old 
hall, surrounded, or rather entangled, by modern steel and glass buildings. 
He wanted to feel relief, but his brain knew better and told him to press on 
and actually wait with the celebrations until his behind was sitting firmly 
in one of the train cars. 
He entered the hall through the sliding doors. The loud noise of cars 
was replaced by a wide flood of distant voices of at least a hundred people. 
There was a large clock on the wall to the right, approximately three 
meters tall. There were two dozen shops, monitors hanging from walls, at 
least ten ticket stations spread out throughout the area, several information 
booths, and more beggars. 
A female voice announced arrivals and departures, while Leonard 
stepped in front of a ticket machine. 
He awkwardly pressed a button and readied his money – when 
suddenly, somebody touched his right shoulder. 
“Mr. Garrett,” a voice said. “Are you leaving us already?” 
Leonard turned around in shock – somebody knew where he was and 
who he was. 
He saw a heavy man in a suit and coat towering in front of him, maybe 
fifty years old; there was something in his eyes – determination. 
“Who are you?” Leonard asked. 
“Chief inspector Reklur, at your service. Or disservice, however you 
want to look at it.” 
Leonard’s mind shattered into a thousand pieces; time stood still. The 
clock on the wall moved its hands in slow motion, producing damped 
clicking noises. 
“How…” 
“Easy,” said Reklur, producing a small book. “I’ve been following you 
and your gang for the past few days. We saw you guys on video, did you 
know there are security cameras in front of the city hall? Crazy, right? In 
what world do we live in, for god’s sake! It’s a fucking police state! Ever 
since some guy shot at Walter and his big reveal party in front of the city 
hall, everybody’s taking things way too seriously around here.” 
 
227 
“I…” 
“Not to mention all the cameras in front of all the INSTANT booths, 
you remember, right? People waving at each other through those small 
TVs? Family entertainment!” Reklur said, his book, some sort of calendar 
book or diary, attached to his hand as if it were biting him. “We know you, 
Leonard. You’re a small fish, you do no harm. Sure, you steal every now 
and then, but in all honesty you’re like a paper cut to a giant. You’re 
actually doing something good for society! Everything you steal is being 
put directly back into the market, the economy’s thankful for that, believe 
me.” 
Leonard’s feet were rooted into place. The presence of the man in front 
of him had knocked his senses out cold. 
“So yes, we have a recorded history of your criminal past. You are a 
criminal; you understand that word, right? A derivation of crime?” Reklur 
continued. 
Leonard admitted nothing, although he had never thought of himself as 
a Samaritan, that’s for sure. 
“Saying nothing actually means you agree, I like that.” Reklur shifted 
his weight from one leg to the other. 
“I have a right to remain silent,” Leonard countered. 
“And I have a huge mountain of evidence in my backyard, there’s 
nothing anyone can do about that. Unless you hire a lawyer who sets that 
mountain on fire.” Reklur patted Leonard’s right shoulder. “So,” he 
continued. “I noticed you guys split up. What happened? I haven’t figured 
it out yet. Did they throw you out? Haven’t you paid your rent?” 
“I don’t know what you mean,” Leonard mumbled. 
“Of course you don’t, very clever,” Reklur said, laughing evilly. 
Some people around them already began to walk a little slower and 
stare. Leonard felt heat rising up in his body, his cheeks flaming hot.  
“You’re coming with me,” Reklur commanded, a triumphant and 
knowing smile between his puffed up cheeks. “I’m not going to hurt you 
or arrest you – as long as you cooperate.” 
“Cooperate?” 
“Yeah, you know, play along, play nice, play dead, roll over. The whole 
shebang. I want to know everything about your gang and what you were 
doing after you stole the teleportation device.” 
“I could outrun you,” Leonard said with conviction. 
“You can, but I will find you again,” Reklur assured him. “I won’t be as 
nice the next time, I can tell you that much right away.” 
 
228 
Leonard sighed and surrendered. “There’s not much to tell either way. 
They’re not my gang, we parted ways, and we sold the INSTANT booth.”  
“Well, aren’t you the talkative type,” Reklur cheered. “Sold to whom?” 
“They called him Einstein,” Leonard said. “He lived in some kind of 
underground laboratory below a field.” 
“Why are you telling me this?” Reklur asked, visibly amused. “Do you 
want to endanger your friends?” 
Leonard hesitated. “They’re not my friends. In my eyes, they were 
business partners for a short period of time. I tagged along just to see any 
possible opportunities, beneficial only to myself.” 
“I like that, only think for yourself, rat out anyone who’s getting too 
close to you,” Reklur summarized. “They were getting too close, right?” 
Leonard looked left and right. He had let himself go too much, 
enjoyment had gotten too big. Yes, he had actually enjoyed the little 
excursion, but deep down inside he had always had doubts. 
“Can you show me where they sold the booth?” Reklur asked, quickly 
evading a running tourist with two suitcases. “Watch it, asshole!” Reklur 
called after the hurrying man. 
“It was outside the city, I have got no clue whatsoever,” Leonard said. 
He wasn’t sure where the truth would get him, but the honesty train had 
departed and wouldn’t simply stop now. 
“Huh,” Reklur said, impatiently slapping his calendar notebook thing 
with the back of his hand. 
The life of a dozen strangers passed them both every few moments 
while Reklur and Leonard kept standing still. Time moved on without 
them, it seemed. 
“Whatever,” Reklur said. “We don’t need you, you’re a trout anyhow.” 
He wrote something down, ripped off the note, handed that to Leonard 
and pointed at the gates to various departing trains. “You better leave 
now. If you ever recall anything else, dial this number and share the 
painful memories.” 
“What makes you think I’ll keep that piece of paper after you’re out of 
my sight?” Leonard asked. 
“You may never know when you need something to wipe your ass 
with.” 
“How romantic.” 
“At least I’m letting you go, my love,” Reklur said, squeezing Leonard’s 
cheek and then striking it hard. “And that is so you won’t ever forget me.” 
Reklur left the station with wide steps. 
 
229 
Leonard crushed the piece of paper in his fist, threw it away - then he 
picked it back up, bought his ticket and went to one of the trains leading to 
St. Frank. 
He sat down next to an old woman and rubbed the spot where Reklur 
had hit him. 
 
230 
 
 
 
Walter woke up from a seemingly endless nightmare: The door to his suite  
had been unhinged, and creatures, or rather things had been watching him 
sleep. He had seen Kristella getting cut so deep, that only fragments of her 
body had remained, yet somehow, with one eye and parts of her head and 
mouth, she had still been able to look at him and speak nonsensical words, 
resulting in a horrifying sound of a throat with a gaping hole and a face 
with only one half of a cheek. 
But now, Walter was awake – for the first time in a while. He rubbed 
his eyes – the skin on his hands dry – and stood up from his bed. A look 
outside the bulletproof window told him it was day, the digital clock 
affirming that by gleefully displaying 16:17 in a glowy red. 
A moment for himself. He took a deep breath, looked at the chaos 
around him and decided to pull himself together and clean up the mess. 
He picked up a trash bin as large as his upper body, started sorting 
through papers, broken pencils and unwashed clothes, and threw away 
half of the items he found away. His furious garbage collection hurricane 
reached the dead rat – Walter hesitated, then threw it into the dark plastic 
abyss, where it landed with a damp knock in a bed of highly scientific 
papers. 
He froze for a second and looked after the rodent. 
Xave barged into the room. “The glorious scientist, as I live and 
breathe!” 
As always, Xave was wearing his suit, Walter observed, with a green tie 
today. 
“What are you doing?” Xave asked, standing on several papers on the 
ground, marking them with his shoes. 
“Getting rid of bad ideas,” Walter said simply. He still felt tired, but it 
was a comfortable fatigue that one only experiences when sleeping too 
long after days of testing the limits of one’s body. He grabbed the rat and 
put it back on the table. 
Xave probably saw him do just that, as he said: “Nostalgic, are we?” 

 
231 
“It’s not the end it deserves, I’ll try to keep it somewhere else,” Walter 
replied. 
“A proper funeral, maybe?” Xave said, adding a cough that was 
probably meant to be a laughter. 
Walter wasn’t in the mood to fight Xave’s strange attempts at humour. 
He looked at him and smiled, slightly. “Even better, I’ll nail it to the wall 
with a syringe.” 
Xave raised one eyebrow, then his eyeballs rolled a full circle. “You 
almost got me with that,” he said. 
Walter continued throwing now insignificant notes into the trash; at 
this point you could already see the floor again. It felt good to just throw 
things away and get rid of some of the weight. He almost wished he 
could’ve opened one of the windows, but after remembering the weather 
report forecasting a hail of bullets at all times, he embraced that inability 
again. 
“It’s been five days since the death of the teenagers,” Xave said. 
“Ah yes, the fun-loving, experimental, lustful adolescents.” Walter 
kicked a chair aside and picked up a disposable pack of bleached and 
pressed trees. 
“Indeed. So you remember, that’s good! Anyway, I pulled a few strings 
and you can look at them anytime,” Xave said. 
Walter turned around. “Thank you, though I’d rather not leave the-” 
Xave held up a hand. “No need to leave, they’re right here.” 
“Where?” 
“In front of your door.” 
“How…” 
“Well,” Xave said, walking to Walter’s bed and resting his body on it. 
“Today’s their funeral.” 
“That doesn’t explain how they’re able to visit us, them being the dead 
bundle they are.” Walter put aside the trash bin, which, now weighing at 
least twenty kilos, met the floor with a loud thump, sending a few 
surrounding stray papers into the air. 
“Oh yes, it does! They’re here because their families and friends believe 
their bodies were burnt and cast into urns.” 
Walter looked at the ground, thinking. “You tricked them?” 
“No, nobody’s been tricked,” Xave said, unbuttoning his jacket. “A 
small sum of money exchanged owners, a simple act some would call 
economic revitalization.” 
“So, these people aren’t burying their kids’ ashes.” Walter scratched his 
chin. “What are they burying?” 
 
232 
“You’re a scientist, Walter. One of the best, if not the best I have had the 
privilege of knowing. You of all people should know that everything and 
everyone is simply made of stardust. Ash equals ash. Stardust equals 
stardust. Besides, funerals are just an act, a play, a ceremony, a habit, a 
tradition; truth is simply spun into a shiny cloth, wrapping the death of 
people in roses, so their relatives may bid goodbye.” 
“You’re distasteful. You’re the one clouding everyone’s judgment with 
your truths.” 
“Correct! I’m a salesman, not a soul’s man. And yet, my methods aren’t 
harming anyone.” 
“Especially not yourself.” Walter sighed. 
“My, my,” Xave said. “I thought you had a good night’s sleep, and this 
is the Walter I get from letting you replenish your health? Besides, you 
have reasons to celebrate. Did you forget what you invented when you 
fixed Jeremy?” 
Walter decided to evade the brewing argument. “How’s he?” 
“He lost his faith in your invention, but he’s alive and he can re-watch 
all the movies he saw in the past two years, I’d say that’s a neat trade-off.” 
Xave grinned cockily. 
For a moment, Walter had decided to smash Xave’s teeth with the trash 
bin, but his aggression made way for curiosity. “What happens when I 
step outside of this room, will I stumble over a pile of bodies or did you 
arrange them neatly in the shape of a heart?” 
“They’re in a metal box, Walter, I’m not that heartless. You said they 
don’t decay, so there’s no cooling equipment or anything fancy like that. 
Oh yeah, they’re pretty naked.” 
“They’re not separate though, are they?” Something deep down inside 
Walter wanted to see his invention’s deeds as close to reality as possible. 
“No – I made the deal just as the guy in the morgue pulled out his 
chainsaw.” 
Walter caught himself being a part of a discussion he had never 
dreamed of participating and literally stepped back with one foot. “What 
are we to do with them after my inspection?” 
“They’re pretty stiff, might as well put them up against a wall, or use 
them as your personal clothes stand.” 
Walter looked Xave in his eyes and for a split second he was almost 
terrified of the man resting on his bed. 
The salesman shook his head, laughed and swung up from the bed, 
opened the door and ordered both of Walter’s bodyguards to carry the 
metal case inside Walter’s suite. 
 
233 
They dropped the giant shining casket as big as both bodyguards in 
front of Walter’s feet. 
“Have fun,” Xave said, waving his hand. 
“You’re staying here,” Walter insisted. 
“I have more important things to do than watch two teenagers cuddle 
up for eternity,” Xave said. 
“You visited their parents, you might as well look at them yourself.”  
“I already saw them, as I said, they’re naked.” 
“I’m sure you didn’t look at them, though.” Walter opened the two locks 
with distinct clicks. 
Xave nervously looked at the bodyguards and said: “Fine. You can wait 
outside, that saves at least someone from becoming traumatized. And you 
better forget this ever happened!” Both meat shields returned to their 
stations. 
Once the door to Walter’s suite shut tight – Walter opened the cold 
metal door. 
A cloud of vile air attacked Walter’s nose; the stench of urine, feces, and 
weeks-old sweat punched him into the stomach like a foul invisible 
creature. He swallowed hard, his whole body revolting against the simple 
idea to just run away. 
Xave just stood there with his tie held up to his nostrils. 
It was a surreal sight, almost as if an artist had lived through the 
weirdest dream and sculptured a still image out of living flesh. 
Several parts of the male teen were visible, but busted up by the female 
body, as if the girl had entered the boy and left an impression on the boy’s 
back and a hole on the whole front. The head of the girl looked through th e 
shoulder blades, even comfortably so, seemingly asleep and content. The 
boy’s face was normal at the top, but it went apart from the nose down, 
like a zipper, the tongue split up into two lanes, drawing lines over the 
girl’s back; his teeth building milestones along the way. 
Their feet were a tangled mess; a mass of bones with too many toes. 
Their fingers stuck out randomly like arrows that had been shot at their 
meaty hulls from within. Something was curled up along an out of place 
limb sticking out from her knee. Her back was split apart, with his legs 
protruding below; remainders of pieces of arms, elbows and thighs veiled 
everything in a grotesque shadow. 
Walter let the casket lid fall shut with a bang. 
 
234 
 
 
 
“No, mum,” Kristella said into her phone, leaning back in her cheap office 
chair behind the desk filled to the brim with notes about the whole 
INSTANT travelling business: lists and cards of important people, random 
trivia about travelling (for those cases where she was interviewed on the 
phone about how things work), a stack of current newspapers, a heavy 
book about the history of transportation (in case of arguments about 
efficiency or why people fear rapid change) and several glass bottles of 
water, one empty, the others full. 
“Everything’s alright, mum, you can use the INSTANT again now,” she 
said, sighing. “You don’t need a car anymore, I tell you, the few minutes 
you have to walk to the station are good for you anyway, remember?”  
She browsed through the newspapers with a bored face. 
“If you want to visit other places further away you can always borrow a 
car from Rick, he says he’d happily lend you one.” 
Usually, there was at least one article in each newspaper referencing 
Walter’s company in one way or another – travelling instantly had become 
commonplace for some, and there used to be a time when Kristella had 
been surprised by that. 
Now she was just bored, although observant enough to catch any 
irregularities. 
“I’ll probably get more money next month, I haven’t talked to Walter 
yet, we’re running a bit short on cash, as you know.” She distanced herself 
from the speaker as her mother coughed loudly into it, then pressed it 
against her ear again – which was getting hotter by the second. “There are 
plans, yes – no, the company’s not going anywhere. People love to go 
places instantly, hell, you do, that’s saying something.” 
She read a couple of lines, skimmed through freshly printed pages, 
grabbed the next paper and looked at page two. An interview with – 
“Jeremy?” she said aloud in disbelief. 
A few more words later, she told her mother: “I gotta hang up, 
something has come up. I’ll call you later. Love you!” 

 
235 
She grabbed the one page, stormed outside of her suite and called for 
the elevator by punching the button, ignoring the two guards that looked 
past her in a strange authoritarian way. 
Xave should be in the building, prepping up more business talks after 
finally convincing Walter to sign the deal with the production company. 
He should be the first to know, although she had never been completely 
sure of whom to send irritating news first. 
A few minutes later she finally stepped out on floor ten and knocked on 
Xave’s door. 
“Come in, if you dare,” his voice resounded. 
Kristella rolled her eyes and entered the suite. “Jeremy’s leaked our 
new feature.” 
Xave was upside down on his hands, his feet supporting his body 
against a wall, his body naked except for blue underpants with white 
vertical stripes. 
He looked skinny; it caught her by surprise that this was her only 
thought. 
In a swift motion Xave lowered his legs and sprung back into a normal 
standing position, his head red as blood. “Already?” he said, reaching for 
the loose page in Kristella’s hand, quickly snatching it away and 
immediately starting to read. 
“What an ass,” Xave remarked after being half-way through. 
“Why are you in your underpants?” Kristella asked. 
“I would’ve been naked if I had locked the door,” he replied, still 
reading. “I thought he was done with beaming,” he imitated Jeremy’s voice. 
“And now he’s trumpeting his experiences out into the world. But hey, I 
expected as much.” He returned the piece of paper back to Kristella. “It ’s 
always attention that people crave and never fail to succumb to.” He 
turned around and looked for his trousers. 
“Why were you upside down just a minute ago?” Kristella asked. 
“The world looks different that way, it is more apparent to me in that 
state what it needs,” the salesman explained mystically. 
“And?” she pressed on. 
“Right now, it needs us,” he said, stuffing one leg inside his trousers, 
followed by the other. 
“That’s a bit big headed, don’t you think?” 
“A big head is always in good fortune,” Xave sang. “Now – about what 
we’re going to do about Jeremy. We need to make it look like we were 
first, even though we weren’t.” 
 
236 
“You mean, the first ones to release the news about how we’re able to 
let people jump back into their previous bodies?” 
“Right,” he said, put on his shirt, flung his loose tie around his neck 
and started working on the knot. “We need to re-launch our product, re-
define our image, jump-start the overall idea. It’s not just about instant 
travelling anymore, that’s already old.” 
Kristella checked the interview again and started to read aloud. 
“Jeremy, are you saying you lost two years of your life? – My mother 
helped me reconstruct bits and pieces, but it’s all a complete blank for me.” 
She looked at Xave again. 
“What of it?” he asked, bending forward to reach for his shiny black 
boots. 
“People don’t need to be blanked out, do they?” 
“Some do, in fact, I saw something yesterday I could do without 
remembering,” he said, sighing. “We need to turn this around and make it 
work for us. It’s good news! Here’s a device that lets you start again if 
memories keep dragging you down.” 
“We’re therapists now?” 
“Careful, Kristella, your negativity has potential to drag me down.” 
“I’m giving you the outsider’s point of view.” 
Xave swung his jacket on his back and magically ended up with both 
arms in it. “Travelling in and of itself is therapy, we’re already dealing 
with deep psychological aspects of humanity. We all need to be 
somewhere sometimes, and it has to be fast. It’s relieving to know that the 
journey is taken care of in as few minutes as possible. And we’re setting a 
new standard of minimum minutes required. It’s a public service of stress 
relief.” 
“Not according to this,” Kristella pointed out, raising the paper into the 
air. “According to this, we’re monsters, trying to alter the world when it 
doesn’t need altering.” 
“That’s the first sign that it indeed does need altering,” Xave countered, 
buttoning his sleeves and checking his father’s watch in his chest pocket. 
“We’re going into an aggressive stance, we’ll re-launch our transportation 
device on a set date with a slick redesign, a new logo, a new slogan – a new 
name. And we’re adding a specific sound to instant travelling, an audio 
logo, so to speak. I have a few ideas already drawn up and ready to go. 
This interview might hamper our image, but we can build something new 
from its ashes, something that shuts people up about Jeremy and the 
teenagers.” 
 
237 
“Speaking of which, I’ve had people call me and ask about rumours 
that Walter has gotten ahold of said teenagers to check them out, even 
though at least the boy’s family hadn’t agreed to that.” 
“It’s a lie, Walter only saw some photos. So did I,” Xave said, looking 
Kristella in her eyes. 
She looked at the interview again and paused. Then she said: “Okay, I ’ll 
take your notes, call up our design company and get some gears going for 
the relaunch. Isela will want to know what we’re up to as well, this will be 
high on her priority list. Do we have a release date for the new Trimond 
product?” 
Fully dressed and ready to go, Xave said with conviction: “A week 
from now.” 
 
238 
 
 
Four Years Later 
 
The crowd went wild. The air was thick with nicotine smoke and artificial 
fog; it reeked of hundreds of sweaty and drunk people, some of them 
throwing their hair around as if possessed by demons, whipping invisible 
angels. 
Glaring and flickering lights shot at the stage, where three thin and 
proud entertainers played bass, drums and electric guitar, all of them 
summoning the Lord of Hell himself by roaring - to a non-fan - 
indistinguishable lyrics into microphones that were tied to stands, like 
victims about to be sacrificed. 
Arms were moved to the rhythm (if there was one), index finger and 
pinkie extended. The loudness of the chaos erupting from two meter tall 
speakers was drilling holes into unprotected ear drums and massaging 
several hearts with murderous and uncontrolled bass. 
Amidst the mass of hands and heads that repeatedly crashed against 
the stage like an army ramming the front door of a castle, there were four 
isles of peace and calm. Heray was one of them, a package of bulging 
muscle, resisting the throng of bodies like a rock, arms crossed, his long 
hair in a tight, aggressive pony tail. His eyes were like searchlights 
watching prisoners. 
The current song - if you could call it that - changed pace, and a scream 
undermined the wailing guitar, the random notes of the bass and the 
whirlwind of the drummer. The sea of random body parts at the foot of the 
three musicians escalated. Plastic cups were thrown against innocent 
heads, fists met chins, and eager mouths started chanting “encore, encore”, 
even though the music - the noise - hadn’t ended yet. 
Heray sprang to life. With the ease of a child playing with puppets he 
forced his way towards two wranglers that were about to beat each other  
senseless. It looked kind of funny how Heray was just using a single hand 
to move dancing and twitching persons to the side, one after another, as if 
parting the sea. 

 
239 
The raging storm around him didn’t matter in the least as he grabbed 
two stick figures at their collars, dragged them through the crowd to the 
exit and threw them out of the hall into an alley like trash bags. He wanted 
to turn and walk back inside, when he heard one of the bags speak. 
“Do you even know who I am?” 
The slowly closing door fell into lock and it was silent. Heray turned 
around. It was a long motion, a mountain uprooting itself and facing the 
other way. His hair seemed to tighten up around his head, his black 
clothes turned even darker, his arms flexed. 
Two teenagers, probably eighteen or nineteen, one standing, the other 
one lying in the dirt, were looking him straight into his eyes. 
Heray spoke, his voice a distant rolling thunder, deep enough to make 
his appearance ever the more sinister: “No.” 
The standing teenager, daring to raise his finger against Heray, 
involuntarily took a step back, blinked and then opened his mouth again: 
“The guy who’s singing? Yeah, that’s my dad.” 
Heray cracked his knuckles. “Sure. Spit another lie, and you won’t have 
the mouth for more.” 
The walkie-talkie on his belt cracked and hissed, and a colleague talked 
to him. “Heray, you dumbass!” 
Heray took it up to his mouth. “What’s up?” he answered, calm and 
casual. 
“You just kicked the singer’s son out of the concert! I don’t believe it!” 
his superior blared. 
“He was clearly fighting somebody and not following house rules,” 
Heray defended himself. 
“We could’ve used the income tonight, and you blew it,” came the 
response. 
Both teenagers were standing in front of him now, the singer’s son 
playfully pushing the other kid to the side with an evil giggle. 
“I don’t understand,” Heray said, still eyeing the young ones like a 
laser beam cannon, ready to fire. 
“We’ll probably have to use double of tonight’s cash on lawyers just to 
be able to say one word at court! This singer’s a freaking ass, and you 
know it,” his boss yelled, not knowing the son was listening. He probably 
didn’t care either way. 
“I’ll get him back inside,” Heray offered. 
“You do that, but you stay out, you’re fired!” 
 
240 
Heray rolled his eyes and sighed. It was the sigh of a giant, bending 
trees as he exhaled. He crushed the walkie-talkie into pieces in his balled 
up fist and let the parts fall out of his hand like a shredded butterfly. 
“Haha, you lost your job,” the son of the screamer proclaimed and 
broke into a little dance. 
Heray hit the teenager’s face with his fist; he wasn’t using full force, just 
a tap that sent the young man against the wall. 
The other teenager ran away, stumbling over several trashcans and his 
own feet. 
It wasn’t the first job Heray had lost, and not even the first to lose over 
something so trivial. He wasn’t sad or disappointed; he had just lost one 
more bit of faith in humanity, but there was a lot left of it. 
He disregarded the crying boy and walked out of the alley. He decided 
to go home and take a nap. The world would offer him another chance as 
soon as he woke up. 
It was a warm summer night; people were strolling past him. There was 
an INSTANT around the corner that would lead him straight home. The 
street he was walking on had been turned into a pedestrian area since a lot 
of people had sold their cars in the past few years, with the INSTANT 
center being built right in the middle of the pavement, as if trying to put a 
stop to traffic. 
He remembered long lines the first few months, but not any more. You 
could pretty much use a booth, well, instantly. No more waiting. He 
admired the company for what they had done. The air smelled cleaner - 
even if it was just imagination - and many destinations weren’t out of 
reach any longer, neither geographically nor financially. You could be 
everywhere, right now.  
Well, not exactly everywhere, but as far as Heray knew they were 
working on that. 
He entered the INSTANT building. It was almost like a temple, with 
mighty pillars outside and a church-like interior. There were high, white 
walls, decorated with black tubes that went upwards, met at the center of 
the ceiling, led back down to spread apart again and connect to dozens of 
beaming booths standing in a majestic circle. 
People were arriving and leaving constantly, even at night. 
There were guards, jokingly called Instances or The Blues. They were 
just making sure nobody would try anything funny. No other work 
required. Just standing there, being not more than security cameras with a 
pulse. 
 
241 
“Good evening,” one of the Instances said, a young woman with a 
charming smile. 
“Ma’am,” Heray said and entered a booth. 
To his luck, their redesign had made it possible for him to use instant 
travelling as well. He was a bear of a man and had to squeeze into the 
booths prior to the rebuilding; something he had not been fond of.  
Now, it was comfortable. He could even turn around and stand 
normally. 
Heray entered his destination on a user friendly on-screen keyboard, 
stepped inside, let the lid close automatically, watched as the computer 
made sense of his words and - disappeared. 
As soon as his body had rematerialized, he coughed three times and 
stumbled out of the booth. He inhaled deeply, craving fresh air as if he 
hadn’t breathed in a year. 
This was new to Heray. 
And this also wasn’t the location he had typed into that damn 
computer. 
It wasn’t even an INSTANT location. He was inside a room. 
He craned his neck left and right, setting his bones straight, and started 
making sense of his surroundings. 
There were two long tables set against the wall, with a dozen monitors 
standing atop and a handful of keyboards and mice in front of the bright 
displays. 
There were three empty chairs, cupboards filled with files and loose 
papers, and a large window. 
Heray stepped closer and glanced outside into the night. 
“Wow,” he said as he realized he was high above the ground, the city - 
a city - lying there, filled with a few small random lights of different 
purposes. 
A door opened behind him and two INSTANT guards walked in, 
talking casually until they saw the mountain of a man standing where one 
wouldn’t expect. 
The left one with broad shoulders drew his black stick and yelled: 
“Intruder!” 
He charged at Heray, who - even though the surprise had petrified him 
for a split second - evaded and let the guard’s head meet the window, 
which to Heray’s surprise didn’t break. 
The second guard had already jumped in the air to try and tackle Heray 
from behind by climbing his back. 
 
242 
There was a grotesque image of Heray having a blue monkey around 
his neck for no apparent reason. Heray used one hand to get him off and 
let gravity deal with the rest by drawing him to the ground. 
“What is going on he-” another person marching into the room said. He 
was wearing blue as well, but regular pants and no stupid hat. 
“Are you in charge here?” Heray asked. 
The man looked flabbergasted and stood still. “Did you just take out 
my two guards?” 
“Guards?” Heray asked in disbelief. “You must be joking.” 
“I’m calling the police,” the man said and grabbed a receiver. 
“I just lost my job, stepped into an INSTANT booth and it spat me out 
in here, I haven’t got the slightest idea where I am,” Heray said, his voice 
conjuring dark clouds on the ceiling. 
“What do you mean? Nobody can access this booth except me and 
those who are authorized.” 
Heray raised his arms. “I’m telling the truth, man, I entered this room 
and those guys attacked me for no reason.” 
“Well, you aren’t supposed to be here, that might be reason enough for 
them,” the man said, still holding the receiver, but apparently not entirely 
sure what to do. “What’s your name?” 
“Heray Peer.” 
“Let me check the logs and see if you’re right.” The man replaced the 
receiver, checked screens and entered a couple dozen phrases Heray 
couldn’t make out from his corner. The two guards were still lying on the 
ground, unconscious for whatever reason. 
The man stood upright again and sighed. “You just caught something 
Walter would call a nasty bug.” 
“Excuse me?” Heray asked. 
“You encountered a new error.” 
“Is that good?” Heray was unsure where the situation was headed. 
“I’m wondering why it hasn’t happened earlier,” the man said. Then he 
extended a hand and said: “My name’s Rick, welcome to the INSTANT 
headquarters.” 
Heray shook his hand instinctively. “Uh,” he coughed. “It’s nice to 
meet you, I suppose.” He scratched his head where the pony tail 
originated. “Another thing I should probably mention,” Heray added. “I 
had a really nasty cough when I appeared here and I was struggling for 
air.” 
Rick nodded. “Definitely not normal.” 
Heray looked around. “I should return home.” 
 
243 
“Wait,” Rick said. “You mentioned that you just lost a job.” 
“That’s right,” Heray admitted. 
“What was your occupation?” 
“I was a bodyguard for hire, and I threw out the wrong person from a 
concert.” 
“I see,” Rick said and looked at the two guards on the ground. “Looks 
to me like you aren’t going to be unemployed much longer. What would 
you say to being my new guard?” 
Heray straightened his back. “Sounds like music to my ears.”  
 
244 
 
 
 
Thin fingers buried their nails deep into the black, soft wall of earth.  
Leonard’s face was strained to a grimace, loose long hair dangling into 
his view. He had probably been able to construct something better to keep 
his food stashed away and cooled at the same time, but this seemed like 
the one idea that wouldn’t arouse suspicion of anyone trying to steal from 
him. 
He was kneeling on the stone floor of the cellar with a lonely candle 
keeping him company in the dark, its glimmer shyly dancing on the red 
stone walls, up towards the curved ceiling. 
Leonard’s claws struck silver; with great effort he dragged the cooling 
bag out of the earth, wiped off the dirt with three loud strokes across the 
shimmering surface and opened it. 
There were three bottles of water, canned meat and vegetables, 
wrapped candy and chocolate bars. 
It was Leonard’s emergency stash. He’d been hungry for two full days; 
it was time. 
He closed the hole in the wall as quickly as possible with the dirt on the 
ground, and the end result looked consequently rushed. His mother had 
taught him to hide food underground, a technique useful during the world 
war, to keep food out of the hungry hands of trespassing soldiers. But she 
wouldn’t have been happy to know about his current state. 
Once he stepped out of the cellar into the small room - one of the four 
rooms of the small house - he ripped open the canned meat using the pull-
tab with his black fingernails, grabbed a piece and took a greedy bite. He 
tore open the vegetables, swallowed their insides, gnawed on tiny 
conserved carrots and washed it down with still and cool water out of a 
plastic bottle that cracked in Leonard’s grip. The water tasted funny, but he 
didn’t care; it was better than the water of the nearby river. 

 
245 
One can only eat so much meat without bread before feeling sick, and 
the thief’s mind warned him just in time. He stowed everything back in the 
bag - which he’d actually bought in a supermarket four years earlier with 
Reklur’s money - and sat down in the kitchen on an old wooden chair. 
The kitchen was empty. Every cupboard, the table at the wall, the 
worktop - everything was uninhabited, forgotten, left alone. Leonard felt 
right at home. 
The sun high up in the cloudy sky was making admirable attempts to 
cheer Leonard up through the broken window. Even the rain that fell five 
minutes later could neither wash away his gloom nor pour money into his 
soiled hands. 
Hands that shone with animal fat, fingers that were covered with layers 
of filth like gloves, long nails that sometimes bled under the cracks. 
Leonard formed two fists without strength - and stood up, taking the 
bag with him outside. 
The house, a mass of stone that somehow resembled a reminder of  
civilization, was standing on top of a hill, surrounded by a dozen trees - 
yet not enough to call it a forest. There were three towns in three different 
directions. Across the four years, Leonard had taken great care not to make 
a big fuss in any of them. Only once a week, he would appear in one of the 
locations, cycling through various less crowded areas. 
Before stealing, he would always pay attention to the possible reactions 
of his deeds. You don’t steal money from a woman that can hardly take 
care of her two kids. You’ve got to target the ones that load up their 
shopping carts to the rim; those that barely shrug when they realize 
something’s missing. Leonard wouldn’t have made it to forty-three 
without knowing how and when to keep a low profile. 
Once again he looked at his fingernails. At this rate he’d have to bite 
them to survive. Whatever he was making, it definitely wasn’t a living. 
St. Frank was lying calmly to the south of the hill. Leonard followed a 
beaten path down the grassy slope, the bag hitting his right leg on the way 
down. He passed the heritage-protected sacred sanctuary, a building out of 
the 14th century, almost as tall as the house he lived in, and almost as 
curvy in its supposedly sturdy outline. From here on out it was flat land 
with fields of sunflowers that Leonard traversed. He would take a few sips 
of water every twenty steps or so to keep himself going, watching the sun 
lower itself down to the ground behind heavy clouds. The village drew 
closer, and when Leonard finally reached it, he stopped beneath two 
intertwined trees to take a breather. 
 
246 
The shadows stretched out on the ground like grotesque stick figures as 
the sun beamed her last smile for the day. People were passing Leonard, 
who was wearing wet jeans and a sticky brown t-shirt. He hoped nobody 
would notice his hands, which he hadn’t cleaned up to save his precious 
water and the next river was the opposite direction. He would ’ve been the 
perfect villager, if not for his hands, face and soaked hair. 
He quickly recalled the last few times he had been here and went 
through possible locations for today. The town hall, the rehabilitation 
center, the main square - if you could call it that - the railroad bridge, the 
two supermarkets, the post office, any of the residential places. 
Maybe he would just walk down the main street leading through St. 
Frank today and wait for the right situations to arise. 
In that moment he noticed a suspicious amount of people walking 
towards the main square, which was basically a statue and pretty stone s 
forming a ground to walk on, with elegant green benches at the sides.  
Or so Leonard remembered. 
He followed a group of primary school children and their two teachers 
to the heart of St. Frank. 
Instead of a statue, there was a building now, almost appearing to be a 
shrine, with graceful pillars surrounding it and carrying a pointy roof. It 
was huge compared to the houses nearby, using up most of the space.  
Leonard noticed the festive decorations thrown across the street lamps, 
and men in suits and women in fancy dresses idling near the entrance of 
the new facility that looked so out of place. Above the black opening that 
led inside, Leonard saw a rectangular shape, veiled in a blue, silky cloth.  
There was a podium, complete with a microphone and a tiny plastic 
bottle of mineral water, waiting for someone or something. A curious and 
murmuring crowd gathered in front of it, until finally a person appeared 
out of the corner of Leonard’s eye, approaching the pedestal; a man in an 
expensive, tight suit, with his tie waving in the wind, and his heavy, 
confident steps echoing off the nearby house fronts. He climbed behind the 
microphone, tapped it, opened the bottle to drink quickly, and, while 
leaning forward and resting his upper body with both hands on the 
podium, began his speech. 
Leonard folded his arms and listened from across the street in the 
shadow of a weeping willow. 
“My name,” the man with the wild tie announced, his voice booming 
through invisible speakers, “is Xave Stern, I am the co-founder of the 
INSTANT company and I’m here today, well, for obvious reasons.” He 
waved a hand and hinted at the monstrosity behind him. 
 
247 
Someone laughed. 
“I’m proud to be standing here today, to be able to improve lives, to 
reach out to more individuals than ever before, to connect even more 
people that long to be closer to each other, or take on a job far away, or get 
inspired to visit places that they have never even dared to dream of 
visiting.” 
A dramatic pause followed. The crowd shifted weights impatiently.  
“This,” Xave Stern continued, “is an opportunity I love to share with all 
of you. I am, of course, talking about INSTANT travelling.” 
With that, the cloth magically fell to the ground, revealing the company 
logo in big white letters, shining brightly in the falling dusk. Xave Stern 
stepped aside, two INSTANT guards appeared out of the building’s 
entrance and gestured at the applauding people to come and try out the 
new attraction in town. 
Leonard wiped a finger across his nose. The future had caught up with 
him. 
 
248 
 
 
 
It wasn’t Friday, yet Xave was standing in front of his parents’ grave, one 
hand in the pocket of his black trousers, the other holding his father’s 
watch. Its chain dangled between Xave’s fingers, playfully nudged by the 
wind, and its hands had stopped showing the current time. 
His Friday tradition had shifted since his and Walter’s ever growing 
level of paranoia had exceeded a certain limit. Unlike Walter, Xave hadn ’t 
gone entirely crazy yet, but he was still afraid that people – the wrong kind 
– would recognize him and make him pay. 
For what? 
Even chief inspector Reklur couldn’t answer that. There had been hints 
of envy of several big players in transportation, but nobody had made an 
actual public appearance or statement of any kind regarding INSTANT ’s 
disrupting success. 
Sure, some higher-ups had mocked the very idea, but ultimately 
stopped doing so when it had made them look close-minded in the eyes of 
the public. 
Also, there had been no more shootings or other assassination attempts 
since that last time. 
But frankly, that had made it even worse. You can’t fight the unknown, 
you can just try to ignore it or hide as best as you can. 
“What do you think, father? Am I just talking to myself again? Maybe I 
shouldn’t bother coming here anymore. You’re long gone anyway, right?” 
Xave said to the roses living off his parents’ decaying remains. “Yeah. I’m 
sorry too.” 
He exited the cemetery and went back to his car. 
“Hey,” a female voice said from behind Xave. 
He turned around. A woman, roughly forty years old, was approaching 
him. 
“Hey, I know you,” she said, the white plastic bag in her left hand 
hissing along with every step. “You’re the guy from the INSTANT firm, 
right?” 

 
249 
Xave tensed up, but tried to play it down. “Yes, the name is Xave Stern. 
And you are?” He extended a hand – which got ignored. 
“You know, your little invention might have brought people happiness, 
but to me it seems you don’t actually trust your fancy new transportation 
system,” she spouted, pointing at Xave’s car. 
“Now,” Xave said, raising both arms as if held at gunpoint. “INSTANT 
travelling is the safest way to get from point A to point B, and we have 
statistics to back up my claim.” 
“You probably asked ten people,” she scoffed. 
“We didn’t ask anyone, we compared our failure rate to all the other 
means of transportation, and we clearly are the safest solution,” he 
explained, now standing akimbo. 
“Why don’t you use it? There’s an INSTANT going off fifteen minutes 
from here.” 
The truth burnt inside Xave like a demon; he swallowed as hard as he 
could to extinguish it. “I have to visit areas that haven’t been connected to 
our INSTANT network, I’m a salesman, and this is my living room on 
wheels.” 
The women nodded slowly in disbelief, rolled her eyes and left.  
Xave wanted to say more, but instead he just got into his car and drove 
to the INSTANT headquarters. 
 
250 
 
 
 
Walter woke up to the sound of his own screaming. He had seen darkness 
lurking outside his windows, something had been approaching, he had felt 
it and tried to shoot it through the bulletproof glass with arrows. There 
had been his mother, whom he had tried to save. All he had been able to 
do was yell for her. 
“Walter, are you there?” Xave’s damp voice was heard behind the door, 
the exit that led outside of his world. 
Walter rubbed his forearms to get rid of the goose bumps, checked the 
dark corners of his suite, stood up on shaky legs and forced himself to 
open the door. 
“Xave,” Walter said simply, the light in the corridor burning his eyes.  
“Those nightmares have got to stop, Walter,” Xave pointed out as he 
entered. “They’re killing you.” 
“It’s not like I’m having them deliberately, they’re not a TV program 
that I can just turn off,” Walter mumbled in frustration. 
“It would sell well, I imagine,” Xave said. “You’re watching 
blockbuster horror flicks and you’re not sharing them, in my line of work 
that’s called a wasted opportunity.” 
“Some opportunities are better left untouched,” Walter remarked. 
Xave shook his head. “We’re not having that argument again.” 
“Again? It never ended in the first place. This – everything – it never 
ends.” Walter sat down on his bed and started smoking a cigarette through 
his beard. 
Xave put his hands on his hips, grinding his teeth. 
“Never mind,” Walter said, blowing out a gray, depressive cloud. 
“Samir asked for you,” Xave said, disregarding the past five seconds. 
“He said he has found a new thing for the wireless travelling idea.”  
A frown crossed Walter’s shiny forehead. “Again.” 
“This could be it, he says.” 
“Like every day in the last two years,” Walter acknowledges. 
“Just hear him out, alright?” Xave pressured. 

 
251 
“I’ll ring him up in an hour.” 
Xave nodded and took a long look around. “When will you ever meet 
people other than me again?” 
“Seeing your omnipresent face is so fulfilling, what else do I need?” 
“That’s sweet of you, Walter, but do you even remember what other 
humans look like?” Xave asked and sniffed. “You can’t even open a 
window in here. And it stinks.” 
“Thanks for not saying that I’m the one who stinks,” Walter said, 
scratched his beard and flicked the cigarette’s head against an ash tray. 
“Everything in here stinks.” 
“Screw you,” Walter grumbled. 
“I swear, I’ve been hearing theories about you being a ghost,” Xave 
said. “You’ve got to make a public appearance.” 
“And get killed. Is that what you want? Is Samir that good that he can 
replace me already?” Walter asked. 
“Honestly,” Xave said, inhaling. “If anyone else saw this suite, he or she 
might think a person committed suicide in here and you’re the reason.” 
Walter chuckled. “If that window behind me weren’t bullet proof, I’d 
jump out of it now and take you with me.” 
“You’d probably die of fresh air long before hitting the ground.” 
Walter looked at him for the first time since they had started talking. 
Their eyes met and Xave looked away. 
The salesman sat down on the back of a sofa, which was half-buried 
under a pile of papers. “The good news is that, even though we had to 
recall a shipment of ten booths because of circuit failures, the outsourced 
production at the factories is running smoothly and we’re looking at a 
clean five hundred connected cities as of yesterday.” 
Walter killed the remains of his cigarette. “How is that good?” 
“Let’s see. We’ve connected all major cities in Europe, and we’re 
gaining ground in all other continents. There are fewer cars on our streets 
today than in 1990. Some people are already receiving their post packages 
instantly. We have installed barrier-free booths. And the Time Machine 
customers are making us rich, Walter.” 
“Rich,” Walter repeated. 
Xave got up and crouched down in front of Walter. “You can have 
everything you dream of.” 
“My dreams are not made of my desires,” Walter replied. 
“Stop being afraid, Walter!” 
“Says the one who still hasn’t utilized what he’s selling,” Walter said. 
 
252 
“I know,” Xave said. “I don’t trust an invention that scares off its 
inventor. But nobody else needs to know that.” 
“Don’t people notice?” 
Xave shook his head. “Nah. It’s fine.” He rose up again and took a few 
steps away from Walter. “Sure. Rumours are circulating. But people are 
using it. They can’t not use it.” 
Walter felt vile. “What’s everyone up to?” he asked just to try and lead 
the discussion into a brighter direction. 
“Rick is out investigating an odd occurrence, somebody’s making huge, 
man-sized holes into INSTANT structures, including our cables that run 
along the center of the highways. They’re perfect holes, so no explosives 
could’ve cause those. Reklur is on the case as well.” 
“Reklur? He didn’t seem to be of much help in the past, did he?” Walter 
asked. “We still don’t know who sent the guy with the gun to the 
warehouse. We never found the shooter, we never found the robbers. He ’s 
a scam artist, much like you and me.” 
Xave chose to ignore that. “Kristella is still on vacation with her 
boyfriend, so her secretary is kind of handling everything now. Heray is 
doing his rounds, I just talked to him when he was checking out your 
floor.” 
“I still haven’t seen that man,” Walter realized. “Even though he 
supposedly leaves the food in front of my door now, instead of you.”  
“It depends on you, really,” Xave said. “The thing you called a ‘door’ - 
it’s actually a hole in the wall, it works both ways, so you can step outside 
of your room. It’s fascinating stuff.” 
Walter scoffed. “Nonsense.” 
“Anyway,” Xave said, squeezing his hands together. “I’m expected to 
be present at court because of that one patent lawsuit.” 
“That’s still ongoing?” 
“Yes,” Xave said. “But money’s on our side now. So don’t worry.” 
“No problem, I don’t have space for any more worries.” 
“Where are your parents, Walter? When they visit you and see you like 
this they will think their son has been replaced with a man older than 
them.” 
Walter looked at a postcard lying on his bed. “South America.” 
 
253 
 
 
 
Kristella stepped out of the booth. 
She was standing next to a cliff, the waves of the sea breaking against it, 
the wind blowing through her hair and bending the grass to the sides of 
the beaten path. 
The booth was surrounded by several other tourists, some of them 
attending the merchant stands a few meters away from the main attraction, 
called Cabo da Roca. 
Sayve appeared in the booth and joined Kristella, embracing her on 
waist level. 
“It’s beautiful!” Kristella exclaimed. 
Sayve sighed. “I’ve got to return to work.” 
“But you took your day off,” she complained. “We still have to visit a 
few more.” 
Sayve checked his watch. “I told you my colleague is sick, it’s flu 
season. And guests are usually bad at waiting.” 
Kristella pouted and sat down in the grass. The gray sky reflected her 
mood, the sea mirroring it gently towards the horizon. 
“I’ll catch up with you, I promise,” Sayve said. “I just need a couple of 
hours.” 
He bowed down to her face and kissed her cheek. 
They’d been together for almost three months. He was a nice guy, 
Kristella thought, but his job as cook at a restaurant was kind of annoying,  
since the kitchen had always been understaffed. 
“I’ll page you when I’m done,” he said. “Let’s meet in our café then.” 
People behind them took a photo of their high-fiving kids. Kristella and 
Sayve’s situation had now been captured for eternity. 
She didn’t say anything and just stared at the endless water. As he was 
about to turn away, she stood up and hugged him. 
“Take care,” she said, and let him go. 
“You too,” he replied while returning to the booth. “Don’t get lost.” 

 
254 
The INSTANT there was a small tent with a lonely transportation 
device in it and a thick cable leading off from behind it far into the 
mainland. People were constantly arriving and leaving. Thankfully, the 
sound it made was very quiet, otherwise it would have disturbed the 
peaceful place. 
After waiting a minute, it was Sayve’s turn to enter the booth. He typed 
his destination, waved Kristella goodbye and as she returned the gesture, 
he had already disappeared. 
She stood up, opened a small notebook in her right hand and checked 
the list of booths she had still wanted to visit today. Now it would only be 
half the fun without her boyfriend. 
Maybe she was overthinking it, but something had always felt odd 
about him, like they had never really connected. Sometimes she would 
have these bad thoughts that she had only been going out with him to shut 
her mother up. 
“Yes, I know, I have to mate and spread the awesome genes you 
gracefully handed to me, ma,” she had said. “You’ll be happy to hear that 
I’ve actually found someone. I have a date in a few hours.” 
Her mother had been cheerful, excited, so much so that she had started 
planning for grandkids, marriage and a new house, right there on the 
phone. She had been a fountain of gleeful energy. 
Had that been the only reason? Her mother’s well-being? 
Sayve was a great guy, no question about it. But was love meant to be 
an unsure experience like this? Had it ever actually clicked between them, 
like it had for so many people when meeting their significant other for the 
first time?  
The horizon, slightly curved, didn’t have any answers for her. 
She went to one of the market stalls, bought a colorful self-made 
woolen blanket, stuffed it in her backpack and headed for the booth.  
Once the people before her had disappeared, she saw the red ring on 
the bottom of the device, telling her to wait for the next passenger to 
arrive. 
An old man appeared, stepped outside, the ring turned green and it 
was Kristella’s turn. 
A minute later she exited the INSTANT in Paris, inside Gare du Nord. 
Hundreds of people were seemingly aimlessly walking around. 
Kristella allowed herself to take a moment to let her mind adjust to the 
quick change from calm sea to human chaos. 
 
255 
She remembered the discussions three years ago that had made it 
possible for the Trimond company to install ten booths inside the station. 
The pressure had been big on the mayor, since other cities had already 
agreed, and he had basically been signing documents as soon as he had 
entered the conference room. 
And it had worked almost too well. They had used aggressive 
advertising, even hiring people to walk through trains before their 
departures, handing out fliers for instant travelling. Kristella remembered 
the ads. There had been a woman, looking at the night sky with a longing 
in her face and a speech bubble above her: “Where are you?” Then, the 
second panel to the right had shown a handsome man, now embracing the 
happy woman, a white balloon putting words in his mouth: “Right beside 
you.” 
The INSTANT logo had been placed in the lower right corner, with a 
new slogan: “INSTANT – Time well spent.” 
How ironic was it that the idea had come from her head? A man 
embracing a woman - really? 
There had been a bunch more like these, and some funny ones. The 
feedback had mostly been overwhelmingly positive. 
Now there were so many people using and used to instant travelling, it 
boggled Kristella’s mind. 
A female voice echoed through tiny speakers and announced a delayed 
train in French, then in English, while people stood in line for the glass 
booths near the walls. 
Accustomed to her new surroundings, Kristella once again turned her 
eyes to her notebook, took a pencil out of a small rubber band that was 
attached to the book’s spine and left a check mark next to “Paris Gare Du 
Nord” with her left hand. 
She didn’t know where to go next; too many goals were on her list, too 
many places she wanted to see. 
More of Paris? Italy? Belgium? 
Instant travelling was her job, she was a part of it and had been since 
the beginning. But it was still eye-opening and kind of daunting to have a 
week off and actually use teleportation and cherish the excitement of 
exploration, of being in so many places in such a short amount of time.  
There was still lots of time left in the day, so Kristella decided to check 
out the outside of the train station. 
After stepping in front of the building, she turned around and looked at 
the façade – a combination of statues, pillars, an analog clock in the center 
of a glass front, and a triangular ceiling above. 
 
256 
And there was the INSTANT logo flashing in blue neon light right 
below six statues and above the name of the station. 
It felt odd, as if an idea of her had invaded Paris. She had participated 
in the meetings that would end up in agreement over connecting Paris, but 
she had never actually set foot here before. 
She looked at her notebook and decided to visit the other two smaller 
stations in Paris, one on the opposite side of the street passing the Eiffel 
Tower, and the second one in front of Sacré-Cœur. 
The church with the great view over Paris, Kristella remembered. 
After having admired both in person, it was time to leave. 
In the next two hours, Kristella’s body materialized on the St Mark’s 
Square in Venice, next to the Tower of Pisa, near the Colosseum in Rome, a 
few meters away from the Kölner Dom in Cologne, right underneath the 
Atomium in Brussels, at the center of the Piccadilly Circus in London, and 
finally underneath the northern section of the Ponte 25 de Abril in Lisbon. 
Every time she had appeared somewhere, she had seemingly left a trail 
of thick black cables, often carving their way through streets and decades-
old buildings, digging into the ground like hungry worms, spitting out 
people because they were fed up with human flesh. 
The bridge, a massive construction of red steel, led off into the distance, 
gracefully hovering above the sea despite its weight. 
Kristella’s pager beeped. Sayve was done. 
Half an hour later they were sitting in their favourite café in Taresville, 
which was actually mainly a bakery, but had expanded in the past years. 
They each ordered coffee, a Semmel with butter and strawberry marmalade 
and a glass of orange juice. It was weird eating a breakfast meal in the 
evening, but they had both felt like waking up. 
“How was work?” Kristella asked. 
“Oh, you know,” Sayve replied, obviously searching for noteworthy 
events in his head. “The Sous-chef was kind of a dick again today.” 
“How so?” Kristella said, chewing. 
“He randomly yelled at us again, we had a lot of people complain 
about the food today, so I guess the pressure got to him. I was onl y there 
for like an hour, but I left again when he called me an asshole.” He sighed. 
“I guess I should just finally look for a new job, huh?” 
Kristella washed a piece of her roll down with coffee. 
“How’s the world travelling coming along?” Sayve asked. 
“Oh, I was in Paris, Venice, Rome, Brussels, London, Lisbon…” 
Kristella answered. “And I think I forgot something.” 
“You want to continue after our, uh, breakfast?” 
 
257 
“I’m not sure. My brain is having a hard time catching up. I think I’ll 
just let it sink in for now,” she said, and watched Sayve take a hearty bite, 
leaving marmalade in both corners of his mouth, which his tongue took 
care of. 
“Is it weird for you that you are partially to blame for all this?” Sayve 
asked. 
“Blame? What do you mean?” 
“I’m kidding,” he said, grinning. “I meant that you are responsible for 
giving people the ability to beam around.” 
“You say it like that’s a bad thing,” Kristella dropped the last two bits 
of her Semmel onto the small plate. 
“I’m not, I’m just trying to make conversation, Jesus,” Sayve said, a 
defensive hand held up. 
Kristella took a deep breath. “Yes, I think it’s pretty cool.” She picked 
up her bread again and continued eating. 
“I see a lot of strange people walking around in Taresville nowadays, 
especially at work,” Sayve said. “Lots of foreigners.” He rocked his coffee 
cup in a small circle, letting the fluid almost touch the edge, and drank 
from it. 
“Again with that negative undertone,” Kristella observed. 
“Oh no, it’s just that, you know,” Sayve hesitated. “A few years ago at 
least everyone was speaking my language, if you know what I mean.”  
Kristella was finished with her food and about to empty her cup next. 
She raised her eyebrows. “I think I do. You think so highly of yourself that 
you thought the town was exclusive to you and your fellow neighbors.” 
Sayve leaned back as if a small bomb had exploded on the table 
between them. “Now come on, I didn’t mean it that way, it’s just…” He 
searched for words. “Sometimes I don’t feel at home here anymore. And 
I’m wondering if it’s the same in all places that you can beam to now. All 
towns may start to melt together, you know? Like, there’s no individuality 
anymore, it’s just one giant city now because you can be everywhere 
anytime.” 
“Each region will always have its own traditions, beliefs and languages. 
Sure, there will be more visitors everywhere now. But that doesn’t have to 
be a bad thing. Not everyone likes to travel, some people like to stay where 
they are and remain perfectly content. I imagine there will be a lot mor e 
commuters than ever before, but the meaning of that word will be 
outdated soon. You just go to work; where you go to work doesn ’t matter 
anymore.” She paused and looked at passing people outside the café’s 
windows. “And personally, I think that’s beautiful. It’s liberating.” 
 
258 
“It’s scary,” Sayve admitted. 
“How old are you? Eighty? Are you saying you can’t handle change? 
Why can’t you see the positive side of things? Don’t you see that it’s 
exciting, a landmark in history, and you’re there to experience it?” 
Sayve grimaced. “All I’m saying is, you’re changing the world, and you 
don’t see it from the perspective of the common people.” 
“The common people?” Kristella raised her voice. “Which category do I 
belong to, then?” 
Sayve shuffled his feet under the table. “You’re a celebrity.” 
Wonderful, Kristella thought. 
“You’re jealous,” she stated. “Is that it? Do you want to trade places?” 
“No.” 
“And for your information, I’m not a celebrity, I’m a spokesperson for a 
successful company. I’m a face people can refer to when talking about 
instant travelling.” 
“People regularly recognize you on the streets,” Sayve noted. 
“And then what? Do I give autographs? Do I pose for a group shot, 
leaning forward and showing my cleavage for fan service?” 
Sayve seemed to try to remember. “I don’t know, I guess not. You do 
get letters and postcards as well, though.” 
“Including death threats, right,” Kristella shot back. She noticed other 
guests looking at them and consciously tried to wind down a bit by 
swallowing the last sip of orange juice. 
For a moment she imagined herself sitting in the same café thirty years 
from now, having the same discussion with an old and bitter version of 
Sayve. 
“Screw this,” she said, grabbed her backpack, pulled a fifty Schilling 
note out of her right jeans pocket, threw it in front of a blankly staring 
Sayve and left. 
 
259 
 
 
 
Walter’s phone rang. Again. Again and again. 
The scientist exhaled, a cloud of smoke riding along with his breath. He 
was lying in bed, fully clothed in black jeans, white shirt and dirty  gray 
socks, that had probably been white a long time ago. 
He got up. The phone was too persistent. Better to answer it than trying 
to think while it continued to annoy him. 
“Yes,” Walter said into the plastic receiver with the cord dangling from 
it, his right hand killing the cigarette amidst black spots on the wooden 
table. 
“Walter,” the new assistant Samir Zewail said. “Wireless travelling!”  
“Yes,” Walter repeated and rubbed his eyes. “Yes, yes.” 
“It works!” the voice on the other end of the receiver said with a thick 
accent. 
“How?” Walter asked, bored. Bored of everything. 
“It’s easy,” Samir continued enthusiastically. 
“You said that the last dozen times.” 
“But it really is! Listen to me,” Samir began explaining. “We’re already 
using molecules to rebuild the body they belonged to. But – we can use the 
same principle to use said molecules on a different template!” 
“Not all bodies are made of the exact same amount of molecules. Not 
even clones are. It doesn’t work that way,” Walter said, with almost no 
alteration in the tone of his voice, like a bagpipe. 
“But what if,” Samir made a dramatic pause. Walter yawned. “What if 
we had a large pool of available molecules?” Samir asked triumphantly.  
Walter rolled his eyes. “We don’t have a large pool of molecules, unless 
we throw a bunch of people in a blender.” 
Walter’s eyes opened up. That was it. That was what Samir was leading 
up to. A pool of molecules. 
“Exactly,” Samir said. “Nonono, I don’t mean to kill people, but what if 
we use bodies that are already dead?” 

 
260 
Walter stood up and retraced his beard towards his chin with his left 
fingers. “That is…” 
“Awesome, right?” Samir rejoiced. “Is that the correct word to use 
now? I’m usually not a party person.” 
“Unethical,” Walter corrected him and sat back down. “Nobody will 
allow us to do that.” 
“Think of it like organ donors,” Samir said. “People could always just 
give their bodies away for the greater good.” 
Walter looked at the night sky outside his window. Why did he even 
care? His work was already done. The world was already in peril because 
of him. 
“Here’s the best part,” Samir concluded. “Once you send a person 
away, the body will be stored in the local pool. So, in theory once you 
collect a basic level of molecules for each required type, it should almost 
never need to be replenished.” 
“What about clothes and other non-organic objects? Say, people with 
backpacks?” Walter shot down Samir’s idea. Again. 
“A shared pool,” Samir evaded Walter’s shot with the enthusiasm of a 
child in front of a toy store. “If any molecules are missing, some pools will 
be connected and draw in needed molecules.” Samir shrugged. “If no 
matching molecules are found, just display an error message before 
sending the man with the backpack.” 
Walter gave in. “That’s a great idea, Samir,” he congratulated his 
assistant. “Shouldn’t you be back home by now? What time is it in Egypt 
anyway?” 
“Oh, yes, I’m just too excited, you know how it is.” 
Walter looked around. Everything around him screamed pathetic. “I 
do. That’s why I’m telling you, let it go for tonight, take care of your wife 
and kids. Go back to Alexandria. Tomorrow is another day.” 
“Alright, thank you, Walter. And thanks for believing in me.” 
Kristella suddenly barged into Walter’s room. She had tears in her eyes. 
“Be safe on your travel back home, Samir,” Walter said and hung up. 
He didn’t know what he should be embarrassed for first. Luckily, most 
of his suite was shrouded in mystery, only the small lamp next to the bed 
dared to break through the darkness, and light from the hallway shone i n 
from behind the shivering woman. 
“Kristella?” Walter asked in disbelief. 
He hadn’t seen her in a long time. Months that had turned into years. 
How long had he been leading this reclusive life? 
She ran towards him and - 
 
261 
Walter almost died as she put her arms around him, squeezed the air 
out of his lungs, and dug her wet face into his right shoulder. She began to 
sob, then she cried loudly. 
He couldn’t move, he didn’t dare to move. The last time a woman had 
come close to him was… a century ago. In another life altogether, it 
seemed. He just stood there like a statue. 
The situation was almost too awkward. The last shower had been too 
far back, the place was a mess. At least he wore something. 
Kristella calmed down, let go of the scientist and wiped her face a cross 
her left hand. “I’m sorry,” she whispered. 
Walter watched Kristella slowly come to her senses and realize her 
surroundings. 
“You… look like crap,” Kristella said with a sweet undertone, still on 
the brink of crying. She took a look around. “Your room looks like crap.” 
Then she looked at him with a sudden firm expression, took his hand, 
dragged him to the bathroom at the other end of the suite, turned on the 
lights inside, left Walter standing there and shut the door. 
“You’re not coming out before I can see your face again and you smell 
like roses,” Kristella said through the closed door. 
Walter blinked at his own reflection in the mirror, while Kristella 
started to move around furniture and apparently throw stuff around in his 
suite. 
“What are you doing?” Walter asked in a loud voice. There was no 
answer. 
He undressed and began to shave. 
 
262 
 
 
 
Rick parked his Ford near the INSTANT station in Monoura. He, his wife 
and his son got out, Rick locked up, and they gathered together in front of 
the hood of the car. 
They could have walked instead, but Roanne usually drove to work as 
she wasn’t very keen on travelling, so she would take the car later. 
It was 7 a.m., some people looked like zombies as they approached the 
station. There were a bunch of school kids too, with bags on their backs 
almost as big as their whole bodies and displaying way too many colors.  
“Alright, son,” Rick said, offering Bernand his hand. “Let’s get you 
your bracelet.” 
It had been Bernand’s greatest wish since half a year ago when the 
Trimond company had announced that it was safe for kids to “save 
themselves” and apply for the Time Machine service. Most parents of 
Bernand’s friends had been on the fence about it, so he was still among the 
first. And it gave Rick the chance to create a memorable fourteenth 
birthday for his son. 
It was also free for company employees - a nice bonus. 
Rick regretted not taking the day off, but somebody had been 
vandalizing INSTANT equipment all over Europe, and the other two 
colleagues that he had trained weren’t capable of dealing with the 
situation. His wife had to go to work as well, and Bernand wasn’t 
supposed to stay away from school, so there wasn’t really a lot of incentive 
anyway. Besides, Bernand would have a field day in school with his new 
bracelet, he’d be the talk of the day in his classroom. 
And Rick knew that Bernand enjoyed attention far too much. 
The little family approached the INSTANT station. It all had begun 
here, and where four years ago there had been a little tent, there was now a 
small shrine, sheltering a dozen booths, sending happy travellers up to five 
thousand kilometers away into all directions in mere seconds. 

 
263 
Bernand was visibly excited. They had had a little fight the day before 
over something trivial, but it was all forgotten now. His eyes glowed, he 
walked with a spring in his step and he fired questions at Rick and 
Roanne. 
“Can I be fourteen forever now, dad?” 
 “Yes, and no,” Rick said, amused. “It’s like saving a game on your 
Nintendo. You can always come back to it, but you won’t have any 
memories of what you did after saving.” 
“It’s called PlayStation,” Bernand corrected him. “Will it hurt, though?” 
“No,” Rick said. “It’s just like travelling. But instead of coming out 
somewhere else, you stay where you are. You go in, there’ll be a flash of 
light, and that’s it.” 
Bernand had been using it for the past year to get to school. It was 
much cheaper and naturally quicker than the train and bus he usually had 
to take. 
“Do I have to wear the bracelet all the time from now on?” Bernand 
continued. 
“Yes,” Rick said. “You should. You get a new saved state of yourself 
every time you use it from now on.” 
“Is it all stored on the bracelet?” 
“Yup.” 
“Would it fit on my memory card, too?” 
Rick laughed. “No, it’s actually being saved in several strings of DNA, 
it’s like a very long staircase with stuff placed on it. The constellation of 
your molecules is a lot of information.” 
Rick caught himself almost sounding like Walter. How had he 
transformed from a mechanic into somebody who worked with computers 
most of the time? 
“What if I lose it? Can somebody else become me?” Bernand’s mouth 
opened with awe. 
“No,” Rick said. “Don’t worry about it.” 
Roanne sighed, she was nervous. 
“It’s going to be fine,” Rick assured her. There had been a long and 
thorough discussion about Bernand’s birthday gift, but Bernand himself 
had won the argument. 
As usual, Rick thought. 
They were standing in line now. Rick knew better than to take 
advantage of his job and cause unrest among the travellers. When it was 
their turn, Hannah greeted all three of them. 
“Let’s get him his bracelet, Hannah,” Rick said to the woman in blue.  
 
264 
“Oh, right,” she said. “I remember you telling me about it. Here we go, 
step right in, young man.” 
Bernand stepped inside the booth, and Hannah pushed a button. The 
ring on the bottom of the booth turned bright blue and a ringing sound 
was heard three times. It had become a sort of tradition that bystanders 
would wait and cheer on the new Time Machine user. Everybody around 
Bernand was looking at him with a bright mood. 
Bernand was anxious, but extremely happy, having a broad grin on his 
face. 
Rick smiled at him and nudged Roanne. She couldn’t help but smile in 
return. 
There were still people arriving through the other eleven booths, but 
everyone else stood still. 
“Are you ready?” Hannah asked Bernand. 
He nodded twice and gave her the thumbs up. 
Hannah pushed a button and a light show began. There were four 
lamps that had been placed on the ceiling just for occasions like this, and 
they were shining on Bernand now. The lid closed automatically and 
Bernand looked upwards and downwards, checking his feet. 
The blue circle below him turned brighter and brighter until it 
appeared white, the sound of the turbines got louder and louder - and 
Bernand was gone. 
Somebody started to applaud and someone else whistled loudly, but 
Rick, Roanne and Hannah stared at the booth in disbelief. 
The lid of the booth opened, and the bracelet appeared inside a square 
hole in the console in front of Hannah. She had been ready to take it and 
put it around Bernand’s arm, but instead she looked at it as if it were a 
materialized ghost. 
Roanne slowly turned her head to her husband, frightening him with 
her pale face. 
 
265 
 
 
 
Xave was fed up. Every time, every day, he had to get up, ring up 
Kristella’s assistant - What’s her name again? - Calem, ask her about recent 
news, call Rick’s people, compile a list, march up to Walter’s door, his feet 
stomping continuously louder, and feeding the baby scientist with the 
bottle of hot knowledge about his very own company. 
He would get messages on his answering machine overnight too. 
Sleeping on the couch had still not gotten old. No need to worry, sleep is for 
losers anyhow. 
And all that – all of this nonsense – just because Walter felt like letting 
himself go and not giving in to what constitutes a working, functioning 
social human being. 
Once again, as usual, he arrived in front of Walter’s suite, he wanted to 
open the door with his right hand, gently, but his right foot said: “Fuck it!”  
He kicked it, but the security door wouldn’t budge; with a resigned 
grunt, he opened it by hand, and let the door hit the wall. 
 “Good morning, my liege,” Xave said – and almost had a heart attack. 
Kristella let out a scream and sat upright in the bed, holding the blanket 
close to her body, covering herself up to her chin. The scientist got yanked 
out of his sleep, yelling something indescribable, stood up and looked at 
Xave with foggy eyes. 
There was a moment of silence as dust settled in the sun rays. 
“We did not have sex,” Kristella clarified. 
Xave stared at Walter, who was wearing only his tight black 
underpants, and instead of a jungle, there was a face. “Who are you?” He 
turned his neck and let his eyes explore a room he hadn’t seen in a long 
time. “Where are we?” 
Walter fell back on his ass onto the bed, Kristella bobbed up and down.  
The whole suite had been cleaned up. Where once had been chaos, 
there was now order. Everything was shiny and neat. It smelled like roses. 
Xave could actually see the couch in front of the TV again, and there was a 
table at the window behind Kristella, with enough space to do some work . 

 
266 
And Walter, Walter, Xave thought. I haven’t seen you in a while. 
He shook his head. “Okay, here’s the latest news, my king and queen,” 
Xave proclaimed, unfolding the piece of paper, ignoring Kristella’s flushed 
face and Walter’s awkward half naked body. 
“An old male body was reported in an apartment yesterday, dead, no 
signs of decay, basically mummified, people say it’s because he was 
travelling a lot,” Xave reported. “The fire department had to break open 
the door, there was lots of police, they eventually found out who he was. 
End of story.” He swallowed, the silence was unbearable. “Any 
questions?” 
Kristella shook her head slowly, Walter just stared at Xave. 
“We have more death threats, signed by our still-secret admirer, or 
admirers, nobody knows, and that is half the fun, right?” Xave asked, but 
didn’t let his eyes escape the paper in his right hand. “The patent lawsuit 
got dropped because the company that had sued us was sent – you gotta 
love this part - a bomb, killing all of the higher-ups. And finally, Jeremy 
and his groupies are blocking a bunch of INSTANT booths, you know, 
boycott this and that. Nobody cares, right? Have a good day.” 
Xave turned around and bumped into Rick. 
Kristella squealed and put the blanket over her head, Walter let his 
head fall into his palms. 
“My son is gone,” Rick announced. “If you guys don’t help me find him 
in the next two seconds, I’m going to start smashing heads in.” 
“Good morning, Rick,” Xave welcomed him. “What do you mean, he’s 
gone?” 
Xave saw Rick’s mind making sense of the scene in front of him. 
Walter mumbled into his hands: “No, we didn’t have sex.” 
Rick turned to Xave. “We saved him, you know, for his birthday. He 
disappeared. There was a blue light, he’s not supposed to disappear when 
there’s a blue ring, right?” 
Xave nodded. “Correct.” 
“My son didn’t type in a destination, I double checked,” Rick continued 
to tell. “The display was empty; the system couldn’t have decided to beam 
my son away despite the active saving mode. You guys gotta help me, I ’m 
starting to lose my mind.” 
Despite apparent anger and sadness, Rick was seemingly very confused 
as to what to feel first. 
Walter stood up and, sporting his underwear, walked up to Rick and 
smiled at him. 
Xave expected something violent to happen and shielded his eyes.  
 
267 
Instead, Walter simply touched Rick’s shoulder and said: “We’ll find 
him.” 
There was a muffled noise from under the cover as Kristella fell back 
into her pillow with a sigh. 
 
268 
 
 
 
Leonard woke up when the siren of a police car blared through his 
nightmares. 
He had seen a white and orange cat, looking for food, finally finding a 
tarantula and as soon as the cat let its teeth sink into the insect, it had 
resulted in a ghastly cracking and tearing sound, like plucking grass from 
the ground. 
It was early in the morning, seeing as the paper container he had slept 
behind was still covered with morning dew. Fog crawled through the 
alley, seemingly searching for survivors of the night. 
The noise of the wailing police car disappeared in the distance and 
Leonard stood up on wobbly legs. 
It wasn’t cold; the thief was just weak, not having eaten properly in 
days. His emergency stash was gone. And paranoia had finally gott en to 
him. He wasn’t a thief any longer. He was…  
Nothing, he realized. 
Sometimes he would recall the burning on his cheek where Reklur had 
hit him. His eyes seemed everywhere, following his every step. 
He had been indifferent to his illegal deeds, though, right? 
I’m a trout, Leonard remembered. I’m unworthy of being chased. 
And yet here he was, stunned and unable to act out his favourite 
forbidden dance of following people, swimming along with them, 
foreseeing their slightest movements, finding treasures at the bottom of 
their pockets, retreating with a bow. 
In the past four years he had stolen less and less directly off living 
bodies. More often he would simply rob stores, find a rare unlocked car in 
the night with candy inside, visit homeless shelters when able to ignore the 
humiliation, or even rummage in the trash of the cities when the night 
veiled him in his familiar shadow. 
Not today… 
Leonard made plans to do something about his sorry ass. There had to 
be a way to get back on top of things. 

 
269 
He dusted himself off and walked out of the alley. A handful of people 
were looking at him and then retreating their gazes as if they hadn’t seen 
him. Leonard ignored them. He promised himself that this would be the 
day things changed. Maybe he could actually work in the homeless shelter. 
Surely there was something he could do. 
He crossed the street, and the last things he heard were screeching tires 
and a cursing driver. 
 
He woke up when his head hit the window inside of a car. His hair left 
a greasy smudge right in the reflection of his face. 
“Leonard, you’re awake!” the driver cheered, looking at Leonard on the 
backseat through the rear-view mirror. 
It was Bellward. 
“Bellward?” Leonard asked with a heavy tongue and a sore voice. 
Marla, holding a map in her hands, turned to face him from the 
passenger seat. “Hello,” she greeted him with her usual expression-free 
face. 
She looked a little older, Leonard realized through his blurry vision. 
Maybe twenty-five. Bellward still was the same living cupboard he 
remembered, his left arm resting on the door, his short curly hair dancing 
in the airstream flowing through the open window. 
“How…” Leonard began. He looked around and made sense of his 
surroundings: a car with four doors, a pretty spacious trunk, black fabric 
covering all five seats, and a futuristic dashboard. 
“Did you hit me with your car?” Leonard asked, touching the back of 
his head. 
“Yes,” Bellward admitted. “It seemed reasonable back then. You know, 
hitting people in the face is kind of my thing.” 
Marla coughed. 
“I’m sorry,” Bellward said. “I didn’t see you, and I’m sure you didn’t 
see me either.” 
Marla said in her quiet voice without turning around: “He saw you, but 
instead of hitting the brakes, he spit out a vile word that is still hanging in 
the air. Oh, and then he did jump on the brakes when he recognized you. It 
was a little too late.” 
“Well observed,” Bellward said. “Let’s hope nobody calls you to the 
witness stand.” He scoffed and addressed Leonard. “Hey, it’s good to see 
you. How have you been? What a coincidence, huh?” 
 
270 
Leonard rubbed his knees and shins and let out a moan. “I ’m good, I 
hope nothing’s broken.” He looked outside and saw an unfamiliar city. 
“Where are we going?” 
“Oh, we have a job to do,” Bellward said, hit the brakes, shifted into 
second gear, turned the steering wheel right with only his big left hand, 
and accelerated again, pressing Marla and Leonard into their seats. 
“You’re not bringing me to a hospital?” Leonard asked. 
“No, you didn’t bleed, so I thought you were fine and just carried you 
into the car,” Bellward replied. “Sure, some woman looked at me like I was 
crazy, and I guess you did lose consciousness, but hey, a man of the streets 
like you can handle a tap from a bumper, right?” 
Marla added: “He also hit your head when he tried to squeeze you into 
the back of the car.” 
Bellward laughed. “I did not,” he said and grinned at Marla. “Stop 
saying crap like that.” 
“It’s fine,” Leonard said. “What’s a few more bruises.” 
And a strong headache. 
“Do you have to be somewhere, or…” Bellward said. 
“I was invited to play golf at 11 a.m. and I have a meeting with my 
accountant at half past 3 in the afternoon, but I’m free the rest of the day,” 
Leonard said with a grimace. 
“Very well, Sir,” Bellward played along with a sudden British accent.  
Marla coughed again, followed by a sniffle. 
Leaning forward and grabbing the side of Marla’s seat, Leonard said: “I 
did want to change my life today though, so I guess you guys heard my 
prayers.” He paused and added: “Sorry for the smell, Marla.” 
“Oh, I’ve just caught a cold,” she said. “That’s all.” She traced a street 
on the map on her lap. “Turn left,” she commanded Bellward. 
“Yes, ma’am,” Bellward said and maneuvered the car to the left, 
making Marla and Leonard lean to the right. 
“Here we are,” Bellward announced, parked the car, exited and shut 
the door too hard, rocking the poor vehicle. 
Marla didn’t move, so Leonard thought it best to remain inside as well. 
The big man moved behind the car, got something out of the trunk and 
crossed the street, approaching a post office building with a strange device 
strapped to his back and carrying a gun-shaped stick with a huge round 
plate stuck to the front in his right hand. 
 
271 
He didn’t enter the building, instead he went past two other parked 
cars and a confused citizen with a parcel, put the gun in both of his hands 
and stuck the plate sized end onto one of the giant black cables that 
protruded from the post office’s wall. 
Leonard heard a high-pitched whirring sound, a pop, and then the 
device on Bellward’s back shot a dust cloud into the air, like a steam 
locomotive. The man with the parcel gasped and yelled: “What are you 
doing?” 
Bellward removed the device from the cables exterior and Leonard saw 
the hole it had left behind, oozing a strange brown liquid. 
The giant hurried back to the car, replaced the gun in the trunk, sat 
down behind the steering wheel and drove off. 
“What’s next?” he asked. 
Marla produced a small white sheet of paper with a date on it and a list 
of words below, two items struck out. She drew a line on the third and 
answered: “Trimond headquarters.” 
 
272 
 
 
 
Bernand had been missing for twenty-four hours now. A photo of the 
smiling teenager hung next to the exit of the Taresville INSTANT station, 
with the text below describing his unintended absence and pro mising a 
reward. Rick made sure to add one to the opposite side as well. 
A handful of employees had taken copies early in the morning right 
from his desk to spread them around at wherever they worked. Rick ’s wife 
was out there as well, ignoring her dislike for instant travelling and using 
it to reach as many cities as she could, plastering Bernand’s smile all over 
Europe’s INSTANT spots. 
The police had been informed immediately after the incident, right 
before marching in on that strange scene with Xave, Walter and Kristella. 
Xave was mad. The missing boy was a PR bomb that would blow up in 
everyone’s face, so he had announced. 
“You can’t just spread around that message,” Xave had said to Rick that 
morning, attacking a stack of copies in Rick’s hand with his finger. “We 
have to handle this with diligence. You’ve already informed the police. 
Walter has his assistant searching for any relevant information in the 
INSTANT network logs. Hell, you already checked for errors. You guys 
don’t need to do this.” Once again Xave had bent the papers in Rick’s grip 
down. 
Rick had decided to remain silent and had exited his office through his 
own booth. 
After roughly a hundred stations, he was out of fliers. He decided to 
check back and see what Walter and his assistant had found. 
After searching the whole INSTANT headquarters, he located Walter 
sitting in the restaurant. 
“Walter,” Rick said from afar and joined him without sitting down. 
“What are you doing?” he asked in disbelief. 
Walter looked up from his steaming hot food. There was a spark in his 
eyes, a kind of awareness that Rick wasn’t used to. 
“Taking a break,” Walter replied firmly. 

 
273 
Rick ignored internal suggestions to slap the scientist, instead he asked: 
“Have you found anything about my son?” 
“I haven’t,” Walter said. “Maybe Samir has.” 
“Aren’t you two working together?” 
“No,” Walter said, chewing meat, then swallowing. “I’ve given the task 
to him. I have literal security holes to fix.” 
“I don’t care about holes in the cables,” Rick protested. “Where is my 
son?” 
“Oh, perhaps you should care, it could actually be an important piece 
of the puzzle,” Walter said defensively. 
“How so?” 
“Think about it, Rick,” Walter said, arrogantly. “There are holes. In the 
cables.” 
“Are you saying my son has been pulverized and spread throughout 
Europe like ash of a cremated body?” 
Walter sighed. “I’m sorry,” he said and put down his fork. “I can’t even 
try to understand how you and your wife are feeling. I did everything I 
could, given the circumstances. There are millions of people in danger 
because of those holes. We had to shut down several lines already. I know 
your son means the world to you.” 
Rick remained silent. The few people around him continued eating, 
occasionally looking at him and Walter. Waiters carried food and returned 
to the kitchen with empty plates covering their arms. 
“I’m not saying that your son is gone, we don’t even understand how 
the travelling mechanism got activated when all the booth had to do was 
save your son-” 
“It was probably my fault, I built most of the prototype for that,” Rick 
said. 
Walter raised a hand. “Don’t forget that it got assembled by a factory. 
It’s not anybody’s fault right now. Pointing fingers will get us nowhere.” 
Rick nodded. 
“And for what it’s worth - I just had to sit down and eat for ten minutes 
to clear my head,” Walter explained. “As you know I haven’t been outside 
of my room in quite a while.” 
“Yeah, it was odd finding you here,” Rick admitted. 
“See? It shouldn’t be odd finding me here. But I’m fixing that. Baby 
steps, right?” 
Rick didn’t respond. 
“The same with the investigation of your son’s disappearance. Samir is 
making progress. The police as well. I heard Reklur has been informed.”  
 
274 
“That guy? Is he the only one for that kind of job?” 
“No, but he knows how to handle things connected to travelling,” 
Walter said, picking his fork back up and placing a slice of potato between 
his teeth with it. 
“Xave was right though,” Rick said, looking at the wooden table. “The 
media’s devouring this story. I’ve seen reports on TVs and newspapers just 
an hour ago when I was walking around, putting up photos. They were 
already doing a better job than me. I’m not sure the holes in the cables will 
even distract much from it. And honestly, given the potential to kill 
millions of travellers, I’m not sure which news item is shittier.” 
“Xave has turned worse misfortunes on their heads and reaped benefits 
instead,” Walter said, moving the empty plate to the center of the table, 
with the fork resting on it. “He might even advertise getting rid of kids as a 
positive thing.” 
Rick held back a rush of emotions. 
The scientist noticed and apologized immediately. “My bad. That’s 
Xave’s tongue talking through me.” 
“That does sound like him,” Rick added, feeling an urge to change the 
subject. “Any leads on who’s putting holes in our cables? And why?” 
“No, but we have an incident where masked figures sabotaged an 
entire INSTANT shrine. The police have caught three crazy looking people 
hacking at INSTANT cables in Alexandria.” He paused, apparently 
searching for more events. He inhaled quickly and continued. “And an 
INSTANT guard was attacked too. It’s… It’s crazy, Rick. I understand the 
complexity of sending a human being a thousand kilometers away in a 
matter of seconds, but I can’t wrap my head around human behaviour.” 
Rick sat down. He didn’t have time to rest, but he felt comfort in 
Walter’s presence. In a way at least the scientist had made sense in all the 
surrounding chaos, a beacon of hope on the storming sea. 
“It gets crazier,” Walter began pouring out words. “Remember all those 
death threats we got in the mail? Like a subscription that you just can ’t get 
rid of?” He leaned closer to Rick. “They started writing slogans. The future 
doesn’t need us.” 
In talking with a lower voice, Walter raised even more suspicion and  
Rick could feel eyes hanging on Walter’s mouth. 
“Here’s another one from today.” Walter clumsily produced a small 
folded paper and handed it to Rick above the empty plate. 
Rick unfolded it. The letter was not much bigger than his hand. There 
was only one sentence. 
 
275 
With our action we give back to you a small part of the suffering that you 
scientists are bringing to the world. 
“I never took them seriously,” Walter said. “But then they gained a sort 
of… sophistication. You know what I mean?” 
Rick looked up from the sentence and met Walter’s troubled eyes. 
“I think I do,” Rick said. “I knew there had been death threats in the 
past, but why keep quiet about this? There is definitely something going 
on, right?” 
“Xave’s reasoning was that it would cause unnecessary agitation 
amongst the staff,” Walter responded, taking back the letter from Rick ’s 
hand. “So it was always this piece of information that we kept to 
ourselves.” 
“Well,” Rick said, standing up. “I guess it’s out there now. Along with 
my son.” 
Walter pondered on something that drew lines on his forehead. Then, 
as if shaken, he focused on Rick. “Right. I should get back to work.” 
He stood up as well, took a few steps away from Rick, turned around 
and said: “Good luck.” 
Rick nodded. 
 
276 
 
 
 
A crow landed elegantly at Kristella’s bare feet. For a moment, she was too 
surprised to react, then she wanted to scream - but instead she decided to 
just stare at the crow’s eyes. It spread its wings and flew away. 
“Yes, I’m still here - sorry,” she said into the cordless phone. Kristella 
was lying on a comfy cot on the top of the INSTANT headquarters, letting 
the sun touch her skin. She was wearing a green bikini and shades. “A 
crow startled me.” 
“A crow?” her mother yelled into the other end. 
“Yes,” Kristella said. She heard a clicking noise through the receiver, 
indicating that a caller was knocking on another line. “I’m getting a call.” 
“Talk to you later then,” her mother concluded. 
“No, I’m not answering it.” 
“Why not?” 
“I’ll let my secretary handle it for a bit. I need a break from telling 
everyone that we don’t know where Bernand is, and from hearing all the 
theories that we abduct people for ransom money.” 
“Oh, right, the missing boy.” 
“Uh-huh,” Kristella replied. She stretched and breathed in deeply to get 
rid of the stress in her stomach. “I can’t deal with it right now. Walter’s 
looking into it. Xave is doing something, I suppose. Rick is just being 
furious. Last time I saw him he was hacking away at the keyboard in his 
workshop.” She flicked away a fly from her belly. “For a mechanic, he 
knows a lot about software. You think he started off wrong in his life?”  
Her mother blew into the phone until the sound cracked. “Honey, that 
is not good, your company is going downhill,” her mother said with a 
worried tone. “You should start looking for a new job.” 
“You think so?” 
“Yes, I gave life to you so you can be a happy human being, not some 
balled up heap of stress.” 
“I don’t want to end up in some kind of office again,” Kristella 
lamented. 

 
277 
“You think the world only offers office jobs? You can do anything you 
want, you just have to do it.” 
“Mother, are you okay? These are not the words I usually get to hear.”  
“It’s a short term offer, take my good advice before it’s gone.” 
Another caller tried to get through. Click, click, click. 
Kristella slowly looked up. The moon was still visible in the bright 
morning sky. “Maybe I like it complicated, you know?” 
“Like the guy you were dating? It is over, right?” 
“Yes,” Kristella confirmed. 
“Trying again?” 
“No, he clearly wasn’t interested in me.” 
“How do you know?” 
Honking noise from below the street made Kristella’s eyes move 
frantically. Someone shouted vulgarities from afar; they echoed off the tall 
buildings. 
“Well, if you have to know, we only had sex the first two dates,” 
Kristella unveiled. “He’s in love with his work, I guess.” Another crow 
flew by, cackling deeply. Or was it the same one? 
“You once told me sex isn’t everything,” mother reminded her. 
“There was not much else, I’m afraid.” 
“Do you have someone in sight now?” 
“No.” 
“Kristella, I know when you’re lying.” 
Click. Click. Click. 
Kristella rubbed her eyes under the shades with thumb and index 
finger. “I’m not lying, I just have to take care of a lot of things right now. 
Walter was falling apart and-” 
“Walter? You’re taking care of the scientist? I see where that is going.” 
Kristella scoffed and crossed her legs. “I just helped clear his room, that 
is all.” 
“Did you sleep with him?” 
“Come on, mom, no!” 
“You’re lying again,” her mother giggled. 
“I’m not. I crashed on his sofa for one night because I couldn’t go back 
to my ex.” 
Click, click, click. 
Kristella looked at her arm and the veins beneath the skin. 
“You could’ve come to me, you’ll always have a place here. But you 
didn’t, which is telling,” Carin said. 
 
278 
Slowly, Kristella’s world view tilted. For a moment, the whole Trimond 
building seemed to lean forward; Kristella felt a pang of panic, as if she 
was pushed off the sides into the abyss. Then everything stabilized.  
“I think I have to get out of the sun, I’m feeling dizzy,” Kristella said. 
“Maybe it’s not stress you’re dealing with, maybe you’re in love,” her 
mother suggested. 
Then, out of pure instinct, Kristella bent to her right and vomited on the 
ground. 
She stayed at this position as the slimy fluid still hung from her mou th. 
A feeling of terror overcame her. 
“Child, are you alright? What was that noise?” 
Kristella moved the receiver closer. “I’m fine, I’m going to have to call 
you back.” 
 
279 
 
 
 
“Careful, Walter,” Xave warned the scientist. “You’re talking to a salesman 
about having a soul.” 
“Rick’s boy - just like Jeremy - won’t remember anything, as it’s not the 
soul that stores memories, it’s the brain,” Walter continued to explain. 
“But didn’t you white-coats tell the general public that a soul cannot be 
stored or restored? If he even remembers things from before the accident, 
where does that come from then?” 
“Honestly, I believe a soul is just a bunch of variables in your brain, to 
the point where we’ll be able to emulate it in some form or another in the 
near future. If I had enough computing power, I could probably retrieve 
Bernand’s stored information and start creating a digital version of him. 
People say a machine can never create music, as it requires emotion. To me 
emotion is just the result of various input data. People of different cultures 
have different emotions. If a machine is being given all cultural variables 
and the necessary tools and talent, and - especially - if it is given a need to 
reproduce, or the idea that it has to die in a certain amount of time - it will 
create music. Soul is math; it’s simply a reactionary and constantly 
evolving string of completely logical and traceable decisions.” 
“You’ve given up on the romantic value of souls as well, I see,” Xave 
nodded. 
Walter disagreed: “I haven’t given up on anything; in fact, I’m trying to 
treasure it.” 
“Yeah, but you’re not saying souls transcend mortal life, you’re saying 
my calculator has more soul than me.” 
“Your soul, Xave,” Walter elaborated, “is special. You have to feed off 
other souls. You’re the embodiment of survival of the fittest. You rely on 
exploiting social weaknesses in your counterpart’s behaviour. 
Anatomically speaking - you go right for the heart.” 
“The heart of the matter, right,” Xave concluded. “Speaking of which - 
the matter at hand is the lost boy. You go on and suck him out of the cables 
somehow while I deal with the mob.” 

 
280 
“Grenades this time?” Walter suggested sarcastically. 
“No, I’m going for something with a much larger impact: a new 
product.” 
“Oh, will you tell me about it as well? Or is it something you can 
produce yourself?” Walter asked playfully. 
“Mass transport,” Xave announced with a visionary wave of the hand, as 
if trying to cast a spell on Walter. 
“No, Xave,” Walter shook his head. “We already talked about this. I 
won’t go near this topic again. I still have the image of those teenagers 
burnt into the back of my eyes. Pregnancy already gives me headaches.”  
“Oh, so pregnancy gives you headaches, you poor man.” 
Walter ignored Xave’s remark and turned around to go back to work on 
his rescue plans. “No,” he added to his refusing stance as if to end the 
discussion. 
Xave sighed. “I believe in you Walter, how often do you want me to say 
it? Do I need to write it down in the form of a letter? Should I wear a t-shirt 
that says it right on my chest? Do I have to pay someone to write it in the 
sky?” 
Walter rushed towards Xave in three large and aggressive steps. Their 
eyes fought an intense battle with lightning bolts dancing around the 
edges. “We have to stop introducing ideas to something that is in 
desperate need of fixing. My machine does its job, but it also kills people 
right now. It’s a little inconvenient, don’t you think? Are you so eager to 
add new ways to get rid of your customers, financially as well as 
physically?” Walter’s face displayed disgust. 
“I’m eager to sell them ultimate convenience, which they won’t be able 
to resist. Accidents happen, so what? Planes get lost or crash and yet 
people still board them. Nobody will care about the missing or dead 
persons in a month or two,” Xave retorted. 
Walter looked away and threw his arms in the air to try and dismiss 
Xave as a whole. “Mass transport is irrational, how would it even speed 
things up? We already have multiple booths on various stations.”  
“There are lines of people waiting to use a lightning-fast transport 
system, it’s kind of ironic, don’t you think? If these lines were any longer, 
some destinations could be reached quicker with planes or even bikes.”  
“You’re exaggerating,” Walter stated. 
“I do tend to exaggerate to sell things.” 
“You’re selling ideas to me which aren’t worth anything. Don’t you 
have something better to do right now?” 
 
281 
Xave thought about it. “No, this is what currently needs my attention. 
But hey, there’s another scientist now. I’ll go ask Samir.” 
“He won’t do it either, he’s working for me.” 
“No, Walter, he’s working for us. It seems you’re the one doing things on 
your own, while I’m trying to get things done to improve the company.” 
“I’m fixing your mistakes.” 
“I don’t work on the machines, how is the boy my mistake?” Xave 
chuckled. 
Walter almost shook with anger. “We expanded too quickly and too 
soon. I told you we weren’t ready.” 
“A million happy customers can tell you that it was ready. Don’t play 
the blame game with me, it won’t work. Even if you succeed in making me 
believe it was my mistake – somehow I’ll sell it back to you, promise. I 
know your weak spots.” Xave marked three targets on Walter’s body with 
his index finger from afar. Then he made a shooting gesture with his hand.  
 
282 
 
 
 
“Here,” Bellward said, pointing the heavy apparatus at Leonard. “You 
want to try?” 
Leonard shook his head. “These arms can barely hold food to my 
mouth.” 
Bellward laughed. “Always so dramatic.” He tucked the device under 
his arm, shouldered the rest of the contraption with the two large dust 
producing cones on his back and applied the huge circular front on the 
side of the black cable before him. 
The giant cord was snuggling with two others; they were almost the 
same height as Leonard, stacked in a triangle next to the street right on the 
side of a crop field. There wasn’t much else around except for occasional 
trees and majestic windmills; the cables led to the horizon left and right, 
with an ominous humming surrounding them. 
“And here we go,” Bellward announced and flipped a switch with his 
right thumb. The device began to warm up, something started spinning at 
a speed beyond understanding, a dust cloud exploded behind Bellward - 
and there it was; another giant hole in the coating of the cable, with lazy 
ooze flowing out of it mixing with the soil. 
Leonard and Marla both covered mouth and nose with their hands.  
“I hope you guys know what you’re doing,” Leonard said after the dust 
had settled. 
Bellward returned the device to the trunk of the car and stretched. “I 
know what must be done.” 
“I’m not questioning your ways, surely you have the right cause. I wish 
you would elaborate, though,” Leonard said as they all sat back down 
inside the car; Bellward at the driving seat, Marla to his right, Leonard 
behind him. 
Bellward started the car in silence, when Marla turned to him. “This 
wasn’t on the list.” 
“I know,” Bellward replied and drove off. 

 
283 
They had slept for a handful of hours inside the car and had just woken 
up. The dreamworld hadn’t been nice to Leonard, and reality began to lose 
its credibility as such. 
For a moment Leonard’s awareness rose; he felt the cloth of his worn 
shirt stick to his skin, his greasy hair clinging to his neck, his armpits 
sweating through dried sweat and his teeth covered in layers of food long 
forgotten. He closed his eyes and tried to think of something else, but 
nothing came up. 
He sighed and said: “I have overstayed my welcome, I’m sure you two 
will be glad to be rid of me, so I best be on my own way. I appreciate your 
company, but I’m afraid I’m just a rolling ball of dung, fitting perfectly to 
the countryside we’re in right now. Please let me out, thank you.” 
Leonard saw Bellward glimpsing at him through the center rear mirror. 
“Nope,” Bellward said. “You’re staying with us.” 
“If you can’t let me go, then please explain the cause of your actions, to 
which I’m forced to be a part of,” Leonard pleaded. 
“You’re not forced to-” Bellward stopped and looked to the left. “We 
have our reasons.” 
Marla looked down on the small sheet of paper, gripping it hard and 
hiding her face behind her hair. 
“It wasn’t a coincidence, was it?” Leonard asked. 
Bellward and Marla remained silent. 
After a while they arrived at a village, the city limit sign saying 
“Lowsdorf”, sprayed over with a graffiti skull. A flag spanning the entire 
side of a house said in loud letters: “WE’RE SUFFOCATING - CUT 
CABLES - STOP INSTANT TRAVELLING” 
They crossed a bridge, below of which there were another three 
looming black rubber cables, crossing underneath the other three that 
Leonard had seen all the way up until now. A bit outside of the village, a 
tall steel tower was casting a shadow on the village; a massive cage with a 
dozen black cables passing through in each direction, like a giant man 
eaten by worms. 
“What is that?” Leonard asked. 
“Some kind of intersection, I don’t know,” Bellward said. 
Marla gazed at the steel giant in awe. 
As they followed the street through the village, they passed another set 
of cables, this time connected to an INSTANT station. Leonard realized it 
was of a smaller variation, perhaps with only one booth. However, the 
entrance was blocked with crates, an old car, and various flags. One said in 
capital letters: “GET THE GOD-FORSAKEN CABLES OFF OUR CROPS!” 
 
284 
Bellward slowed down the car. 
Marla held his arm. “Not on our list,” she said with a low, but serious 
tone. 
The car pulled right, surprising Leonard, who almost hit his head on 
the window left of him. Bellward stopped, got out of the car and fetched 
the destruction device from the trunk. Leonard and Marla both lo oked 
after him with concern, knowing that any intervention would have been 
futile. 
Shouldering the tool, Bellward stepped towards the INSTANT station. 
A few villagers were eyeing him with great interest. 
Over the course of the next five minutes, Bellward blew several holes 
into the cable leading into the station - until it broke apart, like a cut off 
head of a hydra, spewing brown fluid. 
The villagers didn’t know how to react at first, but then they began to 
clap and cheer. 
“Those must be all of the inhabitants,” Leonard said, counting heads in 
the crowd around Bellward. 
A muscular man, quite possibly a farmer, stepped up to Bellward and 
tapped his right shoulder twice with the force of a truck. They spoke 
inaudible words and after a while Bellward returned to the car. He opened 
the door and said: “They give us food and separate rooms. They got 
showers, if you want.” 
“They’re not suspicious of the doomsday device dangling from your 
back?” Leonard asked. 
“Who would have thought - my summoned hell is better than the one 
they’re living in.” Bellward shut the door, hid his tool in the trunk and 
went towards the farmer. 
 
285 
 
 
 
The alarm clock showed “6:45” and started blaring a random Techno song 
from the charts. Already in his blue jogging suit, which desperately tri ed to 
keep those muscles from bursting, Heray turned it off and left his 
apartment. He ran around the block for exactly forty-five minutes, passing 
yawning neighbors walking their dogs. Back in his apartment he worked 
out for exactly twenty-five minutes - sit-ups, push-ups, squats, lifting 
weights. Afterwards he took a cold shower, brushed his teeth and ate a 
bowl with sliced up banana and milk. He put on his black suit that 
highlighted his rough edges and left the apartment. The next INSTANT 
station was ten minutes away; he checked his watch and quickened his 
pace. 
When he arrived at the station, the blue INSTANT logo reflected on his 
shiny hair and illuminated a line of a dozen people along with early 
morning sun rays. Heray went past the clients with large steps, signaling 
authority. 
“Good morning,” Heray’s voice thundered. 
The two colleagues returned the greetings, something Heray had yet to 
get used to. 
Heray noticed the two posters about Rick’s missing son hanging left 
and right of the entrance. It hit him hard in the stomach; he had never had 
the opportunity to have kids himself, but he was still able to grasp the 
tragedy. 
After a client got sent away, Heray stepped in front of the next person 
in line, holding up his INSTANT worker badge and punched a code into 
the console. 
A second and three hundred kilometers later he stepped out of the 
booth in Rick’s office. 
“Good morning,” Heray said. 
“Hey,” Rick mumbled, his hands stuck inside the workings of the lower 
part of one of the booths. 
“Are you repairing it?” Heray asked, trying to make conversation. 

 
286 
“Looking for an error,” Rick said. “I might have wrongly configured 
the physical system that is responsible for saving people’s DNA data. I 
followed the plans, always did, but you know about plans and their 
tendency to go the route they’re not destined to go.” 
“Good luck, Rick,” Heray said. “I mean it. I told you so before, but still - 
what happened to your family really gets to me, I’m in awe in your ability 
to keep it together. I might appear strong, but I’m not sure I would have 
that much strength.” 
Rick looked at the towering man in a suit. “Thank you.” 
Heray nodded, went outside and down to the entrance hall. “Here we 
go,” he said to himself. 
He went past the woman sitting at the reception, who handed him a 
radio device with a large antenna. “I’m ready,” he proclaimed, shifting the 
suit around his neck. 
“As you wish,” she said. 
The secretary clicked a button and the entrance doors slid to each side. 
A throng of angry and loud people tried to get in, but Heray already held 
up his large arms, walking outside, pushing people back. 
“Please, everyone,” Heray bellowed. “Stay calm.” He held up the radio 
to his mouth and said something only the secretary could hear on the other 
end: “We have about two dozen people here, slightly angry, but they don’t 
seem very aggressive.” 
The voices calmed down a bit, when suddenly a woman spoke up: “My 
husband has been teleporting to work every day and he’s not my husband 
anymore, he has changed, I’m telling you, the machine is the work of the 
devil!” 
Heray has learned to say nothing in return, it wasn’t his job to be a 
spokesperson, his job was to keep them from smashing in windows and 
bringing down the house. 
Somebody else yelled: “I beamed to work and lost my money, you guys 
are stealing from us!” 
“Yeah!” somebody else agreed. 
“Same thing happened to me!” another one chimed in. 
The doors closed behind Heray, who was still stretching his arms to the 
sides. He was used to a lot of people staring at him from the concerts, but 
at least the people in concerts weren’t against him, they usually saw a 
helping hand when he arrived. These people were different. They were on 
the edge of going crazy. Despite this, Heray remained a mountain.  
A news person held up a recording device to his face. “Are you 
confident working for the devil?” 
 
287 
“No comment,” Heray declared. 
He wished to comment that all the devil crap was going on his nerves, 
but he shut his lips. 
A man wrestled through to Heray and yelled: “My wife has been 
throwing up ever since she started beaming around, you’re all killers, 
you’re poisoning us!” 
Somebody from further behind shouted: “You’re in bed with the 
government to decimate the population!” 
Heray shook his head. “Please remain calm and return to your homes 
or workplaces.” 
Another man screamed: “We’re not leaving until you shut the system 
down!” 
Ah, the system needs shutting down, Heray thought, remembering a few 
lyrics he had heard during his concert days. 
“Why don’t you answer the plea of the people?” the news person 
asked. 
Against his better judgement, Heray opened his mouth to respond: “It ’s 
unfortunate to hear you’re all having difficulties, and I know that behind 
the scenes all our staff is hard at work to fix all the problems you have 
brought to our attention. I know that everyone in this building behind me 
is conscious of the situation, competent to figure out solutions and capable 
of implementing them. Please give us a chance. Thank you.” 
With that he turned around and said into his radio device: “Call the 
police.” 
Heray walked inside, waited for the doors to close and the secretary to 
push the button. 
The mob started hammering against the glass. 
“They’re not happy,” Heray said, leaning against the high desk of the 
reception. 
“Sure, it’s the current trend not to be,” the secretary said. “Somebody 
has to be today’s scapegoat for everyone’s problems.” 
The hammering and muffled yelling continued, while the secretary 
called the police. 
A minute later, Heray curiously eyed the distorted faces outside and 
said: “I just don’t understand. So much anger just because one man tries to 
improve their lives. Is change really that bad? I used to commute for two 
hours every day, now it’s down to twenty minutes, or thirty when I stop 
for a coffee.” 
The secretary shrugged. “I’m not using it.” 
Heray raised his eyebrows. “Oh?” 
 
288 
“I watched a documentary on TV, where they explained how it works,” 
she explained. “Did you know that you die for a second?” 
“How do they know? Surely they don’t have official information and 
are just guessing.” 
“Yeah, but you know, once the idea gets into your head...” She paused 
and gestured at the yelling people outside. The glass door almost bent 
inwards due to all the hands touching and hitting it. 
Police arrived and cleared the scene a few minutes later. 
“I’ll see you tomorrow,” Heray said. 
“Back to Walter?” she asked. 
“Yup. Back to Walter. Assuming I can find him.” 
 
289 
 
 
 
“Walter?” Kristella asked, approaching the scientist. 
There he was, sitting in the grass of the park right behind the INSTANT 
station near the town hall in Taresville. 
The image in front of him was unsettling: Eight giant black worm-like 
cables stuck to the INSTANT main node building and dug their ways into 
the ground. Kristella wasn’t sure, but the humming sound suggested that 
they were pulsating. 
She stood next to Walter and poked his left shoulder. “Are you alright? 
You’re kind of out in the open, you know? There are so many death threats 
against us hanging in the air, we might as well already be dead.” 
Walter rose to his feet, like a puppet pulled up by its strings. “This,” 
Walter began, his voice so low he appeared to be talking to himself. “This 
is not what I had in mind.” 
“Why are you acting all surprised? The cables were built according to 
your plans. All mayors agreed. Nobody was forced to do anythin g they 
didn’t want to,” Kristella said. “Now, it was already a miracle finding you, 
if we stay longer we might need another to survive.” 
“A miracle? I told Rick where I went, in case of an emergency, so why 
did he tell you?” Walter asked. 
“Surprise - he told everyone where our famous scientist went since it’s 
kind of important. Then he got lost on the sixth floor again to figure out 
what went wrong. He’s furious, mad even. And I got lucky - well, yeah, 
let’s say I got lucky - that I was there for the one minute he was outside, 
grabbing some more bottles of water.” 
Walter smiled. “Well then, you found me. Here I am. Here we are. 
What now?” 
“We’re leaving. There are way too many windows in those buildings 
around us.” Kristella nervously looked around. 
“I’m not going to hide anymore, Kristella. I’m cured of that poisonous 
fear.” Walter stretched. “And now that I have regained a clear mind - I also 
have to thank you for that - I’m going to fix this. All of it.” He gestured at 

 
290 
the black cables. 
“Okay, fine. Let’s stay. I’m dead anyway.” 
“How come?” Walter’s calm expression changed to a worried frown. 
“I threw up earlier,” Kristella said. 
Walter didn’t react at first, then he showed concern. “Well, you never 
had Jeremy’s symptoms. Considering the time spans from when he first 
used my machine to when you did, and comparing them to when he 
almost died to now - I’d say it’s not related.” 
“You think I’m just feeling sick because...” 
“Because you ate something bad, maybe,” Walter concluded. 
Birds flew away from a nearby tree and caused a park-wide 
commotion. Kristella heard the distant familiar sounds of travelling booths 
being used repeatedly. 
“I’ve gotten through a lot of variants of feeling sick,” Kristella said. 
“This was different, I’m telling you. I was lying on top of the headquarters 
-” 
“You were what?” Walter interrupted her. 
“I gotta catch some sun every now and then, this skin doesn’t tan 
itself,” Kristella fired back. “Anyway, I was lying there and suddenly I felt 
like I was falling off the whole building. It was super creepy.” 
“Was there blood in it or just normal bodily fluids that one would 
expect in such situations?” 
“It was just some slimy fluid, but lots of it. No blood or anything.” 
Walter stuck his hands in his pockets. “Well, you also said you’d been 
together with your ex for two or three months.” 
“What are you saying?” 
“I’m saying, maybe you’re pregnant.” 
Kristella fumed. “That guy had sexphobia. Are you telling me I can get 
pregnant by touching hands or drinking from the same coffee cup?”  
“You can always just test for pregnancy, right?” Walter said, indifferent 
to Kristella’s reasoning. 
“We only had sex at the beginning. Three months to notice pregnancy is 
a bit of a stretch, don’t you think?” Kristella said loudly. An elderly couple 
on a bench turned around a few meters away. She continued with a lower 
voice. “What the fuck are you doing, Walter? Are you even listening? I 
might be dying because I stepped into that machine of yours for all the 
world’s amusement, I threw up back then as well. Isn’t that kind of an 
indicator?” 
“Kind of?” Walter blinked. 
“What do I know, it was so hilarious I passed out.” 
 
291 
“Kristella,” Walter began. 
She rolled her eyes. “Yes?” 
“I have thousands of people to take care of right now.” 
“I can see that,” Kristella said, noticing a majestic bird spreading its 
wings far above her. 
“A group of people is carving holes into my creation, and it is killing 
people. We’re shutting down connections automatically as soon as we 
register a new leak, but ...” Walter stopped and continued the thought in 
his head. 
“You can just turn it off altogether until these people are dealt with. In 
the meantime, I’ll just be over here, dying horribly.” 
“You’re not going to die,” Walter assured her. “I’m telling you, it must 
be something else. I still remember Jeremy’s face, yours is not even close to 
that stadium. Please, go and see a doctor and let me know immediately 
once you know more. Then I’ll be happy to help in any way I can.” 
Kristella slapped Walter. “I’m sorry,” she said. “For a second I thought 
you cared for me. How silly of me to think I’m not just one of your 
customers.” 
She stormed away from him before he could reply, her vision drowned 
in tears. She forced her body not to cry, what a silly thing to do over a man, 
a scientist who merely lived for his creations. How could she even think he 
had cared for her? Had her ex lowered her expectations in men that much?  
She ran aimlessly through the streets for an hour, gradually slowing 
down to a normal walk. She noticed an old church, kept intact neatly, 
surrounded by modern buildings that seemed to turn their backs on the 
church. 
She thought of talking to a certain someone up there, but even that was 
a man, apparently, so why bother. 
A few minutes later she strolled by a group of children, led by one 
grown-up teacher and trailed by another at the end. They looked and 
smiled at her. “Hello,” one boy yelled. 
Were they recognizing her? Kristella hadn’t been on the news for a 
while, delegating that job to Calem. 
Kristella’s cheeks still had dried tears on them, yet she smiled. “Hello,” 
she said back. 
Then she stumbled; once again a slimy fluid forced itself out of her 
mouth onto the ground. The floor was spinning and she felt like she was 
falling off the Earth. 
As the kids screamed and yelled, Kristella hit the pavement and passed 
out. 
 
292 
 
 
 
Heray stormed into Xave’s office on the tenth floor of the Trimond 
building, loosening the hinges of the door. The salesman reacted instantly 
to the loud noise and pulled his gun, pointing it at Heray. 
The guard threw his arms in the air. “It’s me, remember?” 
Xave relaxed and put the gun back into the holster under his left arm. 
“You scared me to death, I almost fell out of my chair. I have very 
important meetings to attend in the afternoon, so-” 
“Kristella is dying, they found her unconscious on the street. Walter is 
with her in the hospital,” Heray summarized. 
Xave slowly rose to his feet and walked forward from behind his desk, 
buttoning his jacket. “So you found Walter, I guess.” 
“I was too late though, Rick had told Kristella about Walter’s location 
an hour or so before me,” Heray said, now catching up with his need for 
air. 
“I thought you were supposed to stay on Walter’s heels?”, Xave 
inquired. 
“I’m also told to make sure people stay away from the HQ front,” 
Heray defended himself. “Your words.” 
Xave thought hard. “Yes,” he agreed. “The words of a man misjudging 
an elusive scientist.” He sighed. “Well, at least now we know where he is. 
You go there and make sure everything’s fine.” 
“What about you? Don’t you want to go and see Kristella?” Heray 
asked. 
“No,” Xave said, walking past Heray. “I’ll keep this company afloat 
meanwhile.” 
The salesman walked three more steps and then turned around to face 
Heray once more. “You said she was dying, surely she isn’t allergic to the 
pavement, is she?” 

 
293 
“When I spoke with Walter on the phone, they didn’t know yet. 
Although Walter said something about him having a vague idea. Not sure, 
what that was supposed to mean. Anyway, I’ll take the INSTANT to the 
station near the hospital, so I should be there in a few minutes. Shall I call 
you when I know more?” 
Xave shook his head. “As I said, I’ll be out of the office for the rest of 
the day, but leave a message with Calem, and I’ll pick it up when I return.” 
“I’m not sure she will be able to take my message, she’s been on the 
phone for an eternity now.” 
“Well, don’t worry about it then. I’ll see you later.” 
Xave left Heray standing there and took the elevator down to the ninth 
floor to meet Samir, who was sitting on the ground, surrounded by a mess 
of electronics. 
“Samir,” Xave greeted him shortly. 
“Xave, what can I do for you?” Samir asked, standing up and putting 
away his thick glasses. 
“How far are you with mass transport?” Xave asked, his hands in his 
pockets. 
“Looking good so far, I’ll test it out on rats pretty soon. I just need to 
know where to get those,” Samir said, smiling awkwardly and wiping 
both his hands on his white coat. 
Xave reached for his wallet and put three five-hundred Schilling bills 
on the table next to him. “This should buy you some specimen in the 
nearest animal shop or shelter.” 
Samir laughed. “That’s not legal, is it?” 
“What isn’t?” Xave frowned. 
“Buying animals to test science on them?” 
“I don’t know what you’re talking about.” 
Samir stopped smiling and swallowed. 
“What will you need to make the first two mass transport chambers?” 
Xave asked, moving the discussion into a different direction. 
“Lots of various material and a handful of builders.” 
“Make me a list by the end of tomorrow and you shall have it.” 
Samir nodded. “Do we know the first two locations?” 
“I’m meeting with my favourite mayors in an hour, I’ll have that 
information soon.” Xave stopped to make a thoughtful face. “Oh and, what 
about wireless?” 
“Well,” Samir said, looking at his boots and then back up again. 
“Walter congratulated me at first, but I know he is against it, more so than 
he is against mass transport, so I’m not sure-” 
 
294 
“Walter is out of the picture,” Xave interrupted. “What do you think?”  
Samir’s eyes started glowing. “If we do this, we have to have a local 
storage at each station, sort of like an atoms stock. In theory, we could use 
the bodies of the persons being sent away, but the first target destination 
needs a pre-made reservoir.” 
Xave shot his next question back with a chilling voice. “Would dead  
people suffice?” 
There was a long pause until Samir nodded. “That’s what I had in 
mind,” he admitted. 
“We better start stocking up then,” Xave said. “Thank you.” 
A few minutes later, Xave was sitting in his car, listening to the radio. A 
nostalgic song played, embracing Xave and filling his head with thoughts 
from his past. It was afternoon; the streets were almost empty in the city. 
Rush hour would occur soon, but it wasn’t that big of a deal anymore. 
Once the high buildings were behind him and grass and trees 
surrounded him, the radio station announced today’s news. 
“Kristella Attenburg, main spokesperson of the Trimond company, was 
found unconscious today and is now in an undisclosed hospital, 
apparently in a life-threatening condition. Police say that a school class had 
seen her collapse. There was no violence involved as far as they know. 
Walter Trimond, the owner of the company, had reportedly been talking to 
her not even an hour before the collapse and was seen entering the 
hospital. We weren’t allowed to interview, but Calem Shala, secretary to 
Kristella, told us on the phone that this will not impact INSTANT 
transportation in any way. Whether this event is in any way related to the 
recent outcry of the man who was first to travel instantly, and who 
allegedly had suffered severe consequences of doing so, remains 
unanswered. Stay tuned-” 
Xave turned it off and opened the window to blast his face with fresh 
air. 
This is a serious allegation, travelling isn’t killing anyone, Xave thought. 
Sure, early adopters might show some side effects, but what’s a little cough? 
Jeremy had been a special case, but Kristella? No. Walter had assured 
him that things worked. 
Xave sighed. 
Of course, that wasn’t right; Walter had told him at every corner of this 
journey that things hadn’t been ready. All that suffering happened because 
the machines hadn’t been tested properly. It had never been Walter’s fault. 
Xave was to blame. 
 
295 
On the top of a hill, in the middle of a forest, Xave kicked the brakes 
and brought his beloved car to a halt at the side of the road. The car’s tires 
screeched like a whinnying horse. 
Xave pulled up the handbrake with too much muscle, jumped out of his 
car and shut the door behind him so hard, its windows vibrated.  
The forest was deep. As he took twenty steps into the woods, he could 
hear the leaves of the trees rustling and birds singing in the distance.  
The idyllic scenery hung on Xave’s shoulders, and as the seconds 
passed, the rustling became the whispers of a thousand souls, chanting 
about him being responsible for having sent them to hell. 
Xave took out his gun and fired six bullets into a tree. 
The echo exploded to his sides, far away into all directions. His ears 
rang. When silence returned, the barrel of his empty gun looked at a now 
deformed trunk. 
It had been a while since he had shot anything. It felt good. He breathed 
consciously, the burnt smell filling his lungs. 
“What the hell are you doing?” A forester had approached him, his rifle 
drawn, but pointed down on the ground. He wore green leather trousers 
and a hat with a feather on it. 
“Good evening,” Xave said, holstering his gun under his arm. “I was 
hoping to talk to the owner of these lands.” 
“You’re talking to him, but I’d prefer you talked to the police,” the 
forester said, taking two steps back. 
“What’s that you got there?” Xave asked, pointing behind the forester.  
They both looked at the forester’s red car with a utility trailer, out of 
which a pair of huge stag antlers stuck out. 
“That’s a dead stag, right?” Xave asked, approaching the car with half-
raised hands. 
“Correct,” the forester answered. 
“What happened to it?” 
“It was sick, so I shot it.” 
“I suppose that happens,” Xave jested. 
“You suppose right,” the forester concurred. “Found him close to the 
tree that you assaulted.” 
Xave looked at the majestic dead animal, and stroked the hair on its 
head. “I like the sound of guns, it helps me relax. You feel like I should 
look into hunting? You know, sick animals only.” 
The forester seemed to realize what Xave was getting at and loosened 
up. “You could.” 
 
296 
Xave retrieved his hand and turned to the man. “We’d like to buy this 
hill, we need a place for a new facility,” Xave continued. 
“Oh yeah? What’s it gonna be? A shooting range?” 
“No, in fact I’m looking at building a private cemetery.” 
 
297 
 
 
 
Leonard awoke to a hammering noise and people cheering. 
He stood up from his bed and brushed his hair back with his hands; he 
had been given a room by the townspeople, right after they had eaten.  
It was a strange feeling: There was actual food in his stomach – a huge 
difference compared to the candy bars Bellward had offered him during 
the trip – and he had slept comfortably. Again, it was like waking up from 
a nightmare. Only to realize that reality might turn out even worse.  
He approached the only window and pushed aside the curtains. Right 
in front of Leonard there were parts of a dismantled cable in a puddle of 
dark and hardened earth-coloured ooze. Right where Leonard had 
remembered the tall steel tower was a crowd of people and several 
beheaded black INSTANT snakes, spewing the same liquid onto a heap of 
metal junk. 
Standing right in the middle of the mayhem, Bellward held the giant 
circular tool into the air. 
The crowd loudly approved of his victory gesture. 
Leonard recognized Marla standing to the sides, her arms crossed and 
her head lowered. She seemed distant and worried. 
With a sigh, Leonard closed the curtains and turned around. He took 
off his clothes and stepped into the shower. It took him almost half an hour 
of submitting to hot water to feel clean for the first time in years. He felt 
reborn. He felt relaxed. 
But nevertheless, something wasn’t right. He had stumbled upon 
Bellward and Marla, both following an eerie purpose and telling Leonard 
to stay right in the middle of a war of technological beliefs. He still 
remembered the first time he had heard people mention instant travelling 
when riding the train. There had been progress in the air, a hint of 
excitement and fear. 
He put on his old ragged clothes. Hanging them near the window 
during the night hadn’t helped much to get rid of the smell. But for once 
his body wasn’t drenched in his own dried sweat. 

 
298 
Leonard left his room and entered the hallway of the small hotel. There 
were a couple more doors left and right, and the exit lay at one end, whi ch 
he approached. 
The whole building felt empty. There was nobody stationed at the 
reception, so he just stepped outside. 
He took a turn to the left - and ran into Marla. 
“Oh, I apologize,” Leonard said. 
“No worries, how are you?” Marla asked, taking a step back. 
“I feel reinvigorated, how about you?” Leonard asked with his deep 
voice. 
“I’m worried about Bellward,” she said, looking to the sides and 
putting her hands in her jeans pockets. 
Leonard wasn’t used to her voice, since she tended to keep her 
thoughts to herself. Bellward’s actions must have truly unsettled her, 
otherwise she wouldn’t have opened up that way. 
“Shall I talk to him?” Leonard offered. 
“I’m not sure you can even get close to him right now, since he’s 
surrounded by his new disciples.” 
Leonard remembered something. He touched and rubbed his cheek and 
sent his hand searching for a piece of paper in his coat pockets. There it 
was. He took it close to his eyes and for a moment he didn’t move at all. 
“What’s that?” Marla inquired curiously. 
“Maybe something that may help. Or someone.” 
Marla touched his arm. “Whoever you’re thinking of involving - don’t. 
Yes, this is troubling. But Bellward knows we have an agenda.”  
Leonard put the note away. “Right. About that.” 
Marla shook her head. 
“You still can’t tell me about it?” Leonard asked. He waited for a 
response, but Marla just looked at her feet. 
People came around the corner into Leonard’s view, with Bellward 
trailing along, the strange battery pack strapped to his back and the round 
targeting device shouldered casually. He saw Leonard and Marla, waved 
at them and broke away from the group to approach them. 
“Good morning, Leonard,” Bellward said with a broad smile. 
“Good morning, Bellward. You seem to be enjoying this.” 
Bellward laughed. “You have no idea.” 
“Maybe a tad too much,” Leonard added. 
“You completely misunderstand,” Bellward said. “Or maybe you don’t. 
You know what, I actually do enjoy it.” 
 
299 
Marla poked him on the shoulder. “We should be leaving. I’m not sure 
of how much time we still have.” 
Bellward scratched his head. “Not sure when we can go. They’re fond 
of us.” He gestured over his shoulder. 
“They’re fond of you,” Marla corrected him. 
“I wasn’t the only one being offered food and a place to stay, if I 
remember correctly,” Bellward said. 
Leonard gestured at Marla. “I am not fully aware of your situation, but 
Marla is troubled and if I have learned something in my life it is that 
worried women normally aren’t so without cause.” 
Bellward sighed. “What I know right now is that these people need me, 
and I don’t believe in coincidences. We are here for a reason.” 
“Just like I’m not here by accident, correct?” Leonard retorted. 
Bellward stared at Leonard. 
“Well, technically it was an accident,” Leonard added. 
“I don’t have time for this,” Bellward said, tapped the round tube on 
his shoulder like a pet, turned on his heel and joined with a group of 
villagers as they entered the local inn across the street. 
Leonard and Marla looked at each other. 
There was heavy fog in the distance surrounding the village; it only 
sustained the feeling of being isolated from the rest of the world.  
“I’ll be right back,” Leonard said. “Will you wait here?” 
Marla nodded slowly and started walking up and down. 
Leonard went past the small lobby and through the hallway into the 
room he had woken up in. There was a blue telephone right next to the 
bed. He wasn’t sure if it would cost money to call an external number, but 
he felt like he had to try anyway. 
He produced the piece of paper from his pocket and punched in the 
number on the black squares on the phone, starting with a zero, which was 
needed to connect outside, according to a small description next to it.  
Thankfully he got through. It rang three times until Reklur picked up. 
“Hello Leonard, you are still alive?” 
“I’m not Leonard, I killed that man and found this number in his coat 
pocket,” Leonard said. 
Reklur chuckled. “You do have a dark sense of humour. You won’t ever 
get close to mine, but hey, it’s a start. So, what’s up? Have you started 
going on a killing spree out of boredom? Women and children first?” 
“Do you remember Bellward and Marla? The thief family?” Leonard 
asked, trying to keep his voice down as much as possible. 
 
300 
“How can I forget, you guys were a perfect fit, they should’ve adopted 
you.” 
“They sort of did. At first I thought we met by luck, but something tells 
me it was deliberate and they won’t let me go. We’re in Lowsdorf and 
Bellward is destroying travelling cables and has been damaging other 
INSTANT property on the way here.” 
“Oh really? He’s the one causing all that mayhem? The people at the 
Trimond company are running in circles without a clue.” Something 
rustled on Reklur’s side. Then he began chewing loudly. “Sorry, I’m 
hungry,” he said with a full mouth. 
“Do whatever you want with the information.” 
“Yup, thanks. I’ll consider printing and framing it.” 
“Very well,” Leonard said and hung up. 
Angrily, he crumpled up the piece of paper and threw it into the nearby 
trash. 
 
301 
 
 
 
“We have to shut it down,” the man in blue INSTANT uniform urged.  
Rick shook his head. “I can’t.” 
“People are dying,” a uniformed woman said. 
“We’ve taken the damaged routes offline,” Rick said, pointing at the 
large screen showing several bright dots connected with lines. Some of the 
lines were blinking alarmingly. “We know which routes are damaged; we 
can measure that.” 
Rick wasn’t in good shape, he knew his wife was furiously looking for 
their son, but he had his hands full in his room of computers and 
surveillance monitors, even if he didn’t want to. 
“Only the passenger lines, what about the postal ones?” another man 
pointed out. 
The atmosphere felt heavy, the air got used up quickly by the six people 
towering next to Rick, feeding him their opinions. 
People spoke up at the same time: 
“I’ve told my family to stop using the INSTANT, as have lots of others, 
we can’t lose traffic that we’ve already lost.” 
“I’ve heard stories that more people have gone missing, we have to turn 
it off!” 
“We must send out hundreds of people to check the cables manually, 
this hands-off screening isn’t even remotely going to cut it.” 
The phone rang and everyone went silent. The pressure on Rick’s 
shoulders almost struck him down to his knees. Even so, Rick picked up.  
“This is Rick.” 
“Walter here,” the scientist said on the other end. “What’s the status?” 
“Walter, where are you? We need you. I need you. Right now,” Rick 
said in a tone of anger and despair. 
“I’m in the hospital with Kristella, I’ll be back in an hour or two. I take 
it from the way you speak things aren’t going smoothly,” Walter assessed. 

 
302 
“They want me to shut it down, they say it’s too risky, there’s too much 
damage in the cables,” Rick summarized. The people in front of him 
nodded in agreement. 
“Where’s the damage?” Walter asked calmly, kids shouting in the 
background. 
“You know the computers can’t really pinpoint it, we only know when 
a line between two stations is broken,” Rick said, his face distorted.  
“Shut it all down, get in touch with our city spokespersons, we can’t 
risk any more blood on our hands,” Walter commanded. 
“Walter, I can’t do that,” Rick disagreed. “My son might still be out 
there in the cables.” 
“No, he’s not,” Walter said. The phone line cracked and hissed as if 
someone were listening in on the conversation. “I don’t believe that’s 
possible. I think he fell victim to one of the hull leaks.” 
Rick looked the six uniformed people into their eyes. The room was 
silent for a while; as if within the eye of the storm, they all didn’t move 
while outside the winds were raging. 
The mechanic hesitated and watched another line on the screen starting 
to blink. A thousand thoughts trampled through his mind, all arguing 
loudly. 
He turned the receiver away from his mouth and said with a broken 
voice: “Prepare for shut down.” 
They left the room immediately and Rick turned the receiver to hi s 
mouth again. 
“Done,” Rick said to Walter. 
“Thank you,” Walter said. “And please believe me when I say I’m 
sorry.” 
Still mesmerized by the weight of his decision, Rick simply replied: 
“Yeah.” 
He pressed the hang-up lid with his finger, let go of it and called 
Calem. 
“Calem speaking,” she answered. 
“Yeah, this is Rick,” he said. “We’re shutting down. Do you know what 
Kristella has planned for such a case?” 
“Yes,” Calem answered. “We’ve got a separate file stashed away just 
for that event. I’ll dig it out.” 
“Thanks,” Rick said and gently put the receiver on the phone. 
He walked to a cupboard, produced a book from a drawer and opened 
it to a specific section using a green woven bookmark. There were 
instructions and codes all over the page. 
 
303 
He returned to the computer screens and entered commands and 
passwords into a keyboard. From his right pocket he fished out a key 
chain, one of those keys slid neatly into a socket in the wall behind a 
monitor. Rick turned it. 
His finger traced the last sentence on the page and his other hand 
followed final instructions. 
Without any noise all the lines over Europe now blinked in regular 
intervals; Rick felt as if life support had been cut off from his son. He fell 
back in his chair and let the book fall to the ground. 
 
304 
 
 
 
The slippery brain started to crawl towards Kristella. It was talking in a 
hundred different voices, using words that didn’t make any sense in the 
order they were uttered. 
As Kristella started to run, the brain began to chase her by taking on 
shapes of persons Kristella had met in her life. Every step it flickered and 
appeared differently, spewing phrases taken out of context of past 
dialogues. 
But then the brain also shuffled through objects, it was funny, yet 
deeply unsettling. Every time it landed on the ground it shook violently 
and looked like something unexpected, something that wasn’t supposed to 
move. 
A thundering washing machine on blood-covered human legs opened 
its maw to suck her in - 
Kristella’s eyes rolled beneath her lids. It was impossible to separate 
them; they were glued together, perhaps by tears. She tried moving her left 
arm, only to gasp from the pain of a needle stuck in it. She raised her right 
arm, even though all muscles in it revolted. 
Finally, with the help of her fingers she opened her eyes, only to be 
blinded by light. 
“Kristella? Kristella!” 
Her mother’s voice. She sounded alert. Kristella heard her standing up 
and shutting the blinds, darkening the room. 
Relieved, Kristella’s eyes adjusted and she focused on the person, who 
returned next to her bed, holding her right hand. 
“Kristella, it’s me, your mother,” she said. 
“Hey,” Kristella tried to say, but it only resulted in a whisper. She 
swallowed and noticed her dry throat and lips. 
Her mother must have picked up the signs. Gently, she held a glass of 
water to her mouth and allowed Kristella to take a sip. Afterwards 
Kristella’s head fell back onto the bed, exhausted. 
“Where am I?” Kristella croaked. 

 
305 
“You’re in the hospital,” her mother replied, squeezing Kristella’s hand 
dearly. “I heard the kids saw you collapse; the doctors aren’t sure about 
your condition yet, we’ll get the full rundown of what’s up with you soon, 
I hope. Otherwise I’ll start a riot.” 
“This morning I was so sure of my symptoms,” Kristella said. 
“Yesterday morning you mean, darling. You slept for a whole day.” 
Kristella looked around in her room. There were flowers on a small 
table left to her. A muted TV hung from the ceiling, trying desperately to 
entertain. 
“And which symptoms do you mean?” her mother asked. 
“I have been feeling sick for a while now and threw up for the first time 
when we talked on the phone, uh, yesterday?” Kristella was confused 
about which day it was. 
“You felt sick and threw up? You aren’t pregnant, are you?” 
“I considered it for a moment, but...” Kristella hesitated. “It somehow 
felt familiar. Like, when you know you are motion sick, and not because of 
some food you ate. This was a special kind of sick.” Her faced turned into a 
grimace at the memory of the bitter taste. 
“And?” her mother poked. 
“Remember when I used the first INSTANT connection and it was 
broadcasted on live TV?” 
“Yeah, I do,” her mother said. 
Kristella could see her clearly now without any blurred artefacts. Her 
eyes still felt like two rocks grinding in their sockets. “When I arrived on 
the other side, I threw up.” 
“I see,” her mother nodded, apparently replaying the scene in her head. 
“You think you still suffer from side effects?” 
“Well, it sure wasn’t the sex I didn’t have the past few months,” 
Kristella added to support her theory. 
“Do you think it could be stress related? I know you guys have a lot on 
your plates right now,” Carin said. She was still standing, and kept 
holding her daughter’s hand. 
Kristella had discarded the idea of stress being the cause after much 
consideration, but she indulged her mother and thought about it once 
more. 
No. “Stress is different, there’s a knot in your stomach. I don’t feel that 
right now. My secretary helps me out a lot, so ...” Kristella looked to the 
side again. “I mean, yes, you are right. There is a lot going on.” She sighed. 
“I just don’t know.” 
 
306 
“Have you asked Walter? He was here yesterday, but didn’t say much. 
He just made sure you were taken care of.” 
“Walter was here?” 
“An hour or so, he seemed really busy,” her mother recalled. 
“I did ask him just before I fell,” Kristella said, her face showing pain 
unrelated to her physical state. “He basically told me I’m insignificant 
compared to the thousands of people about to die due to all the holes in 
the cables. He also said that I’m probably just pregnant, as if it were the 
most common cause for feeling sick.” 
“Maybe he’s jealous that you could be pregnant,” her mother assumed. 
Kristella disagreed. “No, I know he changed when I instilled some 
sense into him that one night, but he sort of landed further away, only with 
more self-importance. It’s ridiculous. At first he didn’t care about himself 
because he saw no meaning in anything, now he takes matters more 
seriously and still doesn’t care about himself. Or me.” 
“You wish for him to care about you?” 
“We spent a lot of time together in that company, I figured it would be 
nice to be recognized for the work I do. I did take a lot of heat to my face 
when things failed. I endured all those awkward discussions with the 
mayoress when I knew both Xave and Walter didn’t want to handle them.” 
She coughed dryly and her mother let Kristella drink some more.  
“Nevertheless,” Kristella continued after swallowing. “I still think the 
doctors here can’t help me.” With the little strength she had she drew her 
mother closer with her right arm. “I need you to get Walter to visit me 
again.” 
 “You just said his head isn’t where it should be. I’m not sure if that’s 
useful to you right now.” 
“He doesn’t want another Jeremy case on his hands. If he refuses, 
threaten him with that.” 
Her mother nodded. “I’ll ask the nurses if I may try calling your 
company and see if they can patch me through to Walter.” 
“I doubt it, they won’t believe you’re my mom. Maybe it’s not the right 
way after all,” Kristella lamented. 
“No,” her mother said. “I will get him here, if you say he can help you. 
Don’t underestimate the woman that brought you into this world.”  
“I never have,” Kristella said, smiling. “Thank you.” 
“I’ll be right back, the press isn’t allowed on this floor, so I don’t have to 
wade through reporters now,” her mother said and went for the door.  
“What are they doing here?” Kristella asked. 
 
307 
“The Trimond Company’s First Lady was found unconscious on the 
street, you bet they’ll besiege this place.” 
“I wish father were here too,” Kristella murmured. 
“I know,” her mother agreed with a glint in her eyes and left the room.  
 
308 
 
 
 
“Who told him to shut it down?” Xave asked. “We can’t just shut down 
our day-to-day business; this company is built on-” 
Calem chewed on her bubble gum with a closed mouth while listening 
to Xave on the phone. 
“Nevermind,” Xave sighed. “Are you still there or have you given up 
on humanity?” 
“Still here,” Calem answered, blowing a bubble and letting it pop. 
A throng of people were hammering against the glass doors in the 
entrance hall, while the well-dressed Heray with his pony tail gestured 
them to calm down. He was used to a thousand people around him, but 
they usually weren’t a unified angry mob. 
“Listen here,” Xave began ordering into Calem’s ear. “First of all, we 
need every station, every single INSTANT booth to be covered by a high-
quality dark blue fabric; the same color as the suits of our INSTANT 
guards. Order them from local stores, these will be quite a lot of different 
stores. Let the locally stationed guards help you out there.” 
Calem made notes with the receiver squeezed between her shoulder 
and cheek. 
“Second, hundreds of people are stranded now. Let the guards draw 
signs saying ‘PROLONGED’, put them up somewhere high. Put up tables 
with coffee machines and buy lots of those American chocolate cookies. 
Now,” Xave cleared his throat, “every person that comes along gets a 
coffee, one cookie and detailed information on how to reach their desired 
destinations. If they have a bracelet, we’ll pay for whatever ticket they 
need; train, bus, plane, taxi - you name it. Write a press release and send 
that info out.” 
“Should I add that we apologize for the inconvenience?” Calem asked.  
“Absolutely,” Xave agreed. “Set up a press conference as well, let them 
get off some steam.” 

 
309 
“Sure, I can handle that,” Calem said, scribbling words on her sheet of 
paper and moving her gum to her right cheek. “The press is already on our 
doorstep, all I have to do is let them in.” 
“Perfect,” Xave said. “Third, announce that we’re working on 
improving our technology, we’re rebuilding, we’re improving; and we’ll 
release a new product soon: Mass Transportation.” 
“Didn’t we just have a relaunch?” Calem asked. 
“Nevermind that, we need to be loud about our will to better ourselves, 
we’re not stationary, we’re always moving. That new product should get 
people excited.” 
“I reckon at the moment people are more excited to see their loved ones 
again in the next few weeks,” Calem said sarcastically. 
“Exactly, they can’t wait for us to be back up again,” Xave said with 
excitement. “Now that we’re gone, they’ll cherish us even more. People 
always miss the things they don’t have. And when they realize that we 
have even more to offer as soon as instant travelling works again - well, 
who can say no to that.” 
“They’ll kill me with questions about the missing persons,” Calem 
complained. 
“I know,” Xave said. “I’m in a meeting with the mayors right now, they 
all agree that it’s best to let the police handle those.” 
“You’re meeting with the mayors?” 
“Yes, I told them I had to call you right away. I’m using the phone 
they’ve installed in this room.” 
Calem heard someone starting a chant. She looked and saw Heray 
shaking his head at the yelling person outside; a familiar face. “What was 
the guy’s name who lost his memory because he was the first beamed 
man?” 
“Uh, Jeremy, why?” Xave asked. 
“He’s here too, leading some kind of choir of hysteria,” Calem 
described the scene in front of the building. The glass door creaked from 
the people leaning against it. “We’ve already called the police again ten 
minutes ago, they should be here soon. I don’t know why they even bother 
to leave.” 
“Alright,” Xave said distractedly. “The inspector is here, talk to you 
later.” 
They said their goodbyes and hung up. 
 
 
310 
Inspector Reklur entered the meeting room first, wearing the usual coat 
and hat. A middle-aged woman followed, her appearance strict and 
official. Finally, two uniformed men walked in, the last one closing the 
door. The first of those men was carrying a tripod, the second, a flip chart. 
They assembled the two pieces and all four persons faced the audience.  
Around a large, round table Xave was sitting between known faces; 
there were Isela Mantorry, Sam Steward, Clause Florentia, Tyra Omand 
and a dozen other very important persons Xave had met throughout the 
years. The air was thick with authority; there was so much power in this 
room one could almost taste it. 
And get high on it, Xave thought. 
The salesman, now free from the phone cord, welcomed the new 
guests. “Inspector Reklur, thank you for coming.” 
Every person on the table nodded at them. 
“If I may,” Reklur began, removing his hat and placing it on the table in 
front of him, at a spot where nobody was sitting. “I want to introduce my 
colleague, Madame Eulalie Leclair, one of the best detectives from Paris.” 
Eulalie bowed. 
“Thank you for coming,” Isela greeted her. 
“Two of my personal guards are with us as well,” Reklur said, pointing 
at the two policemen, standing side by side next to the flip chart. 
Xave could see Reklur biting his lip. Was he holding back? 
“Anyway,” Reklur continued, facing the empty first page on the tripod. 
“We’re going to tell you a little story now, but keep in mind, this is top 
secret.” 
A mayor grinned, visibly excited. 
Reklur stepped aside, gesturing the detective. “Madam Leclair, please.” 
She kept a straight face, turned over the first page and started talking 
with a French accent: “Three months ago, Monsieur Reklur and I crossed 
paths during an investigation concerning the ongoing acts of vandalism on 
Trimond property.” 
The page behind her showed a map of Europe. Red dots had been 
drawn all over the countries, and Xave assumed those were reported 
incidents. 
“As you can see here,” Eulalie continued, her hand hovering over the 
continent. “The destructions happened everywhere, with increasingly 
lower pauses in-between. We were neither able to discern a distinctive 
strategy to their actions, nor catch a glimpse of their identity.” 
 
311 
Sam interrupted her, his second chin wobbling: “We’ve heard witness 
reports of a man with a vacuum cleaner strapped to his back, apparently 
he just shot holes into the cables next to a post office and drove off. Would 
that help?” 
“We’ll get to that,” Reklur countered. “Just enjoy the show for now.”  
Eulalie’s mouth sharpened, then she carried on. “Monsieur Reklur and I 
shared our findings, but it still left us clueless. However,” she paused, 
turning the page and letting it hang behind the chart with a dwarfish 
thunder. “We both found this.” 
Xave leaned forward and took a closer look at the paper next to Eulalie. 
He saw a symbol of some sort, a clean circle, but with a small triangular 
dent at 12 o’clock - an arrow pointing towards the center. 
“Repeatedly, we’d stumble upon a sort of logo. It was prominent in all 
death threat letters and spray painted on walls or cables where they 
destroyed cables and facilities.” 
“That’s correct,” Isela noted. “We saw it on the letters we all received.”  
There were affirming voices from the other mayors. 
“That was our first clue,” Reklur chimed in. “But, that wasn’t all. May 
I?” 
“Bien sûr,” Eulalie acknowledged. 
“You see,” Reklur said, puffing himself up, turning the page on the 
chart. The new image showed a detailed drawing of the round device with 
a backpack wrapped in cables. “Four years ago, one of the teleportation 
devices got stolen. A group of people sold it to a man nicknamed Einstein, 
who allegedly used the technology to construct said vacuum cleaner, only 
it doesn’t clean vacuums, it scrambles whatever it has targeted into dust, 
or, should I say, atoms, and what your witness forgot to tell you,” he faced 
Sam and pointed with his finger. “It shoots the stuff out behind its 
wielder.” He returned to a proud position. “I suggested calling it an Atom 
Disorder Device, or ADD in short, but nobody cared.” 
Eulalie took over. “We knew that by catching individuals we’d get 
information, but these tidbits only gave us names, and no location. So, we 
decided to lead our own undercover group.” 
She licked her finger and dragged the page up and away by its edge.  
Xave held his chin and focused. On the chart there were around thirty 
photos of individuals he’d never seen before. 
“In total, we tasked thirty-one people to infiltrate the organization,” 
Eulalie elaborated, guiding a hand over the photographs. “Some had 
already been on the inside, receiving anonymous messages on what to 
destroy, others owed us favors or were looking at police pardons.”  
 
312 
Reklur cleared his throat. “Imagine that: They all had heard about 
Einstein, but nobody had seen him, except for a group of p eople I 
personally knew. They guided me to a location, at which they had 
previously exchanged the stolen beaming device for a portion of Einstein ’s 
money. It was a grass field right in the middle of nowhere, but there were 
no traces left of the man.” 
Clause clicked his lighter and burnt the head of a fresh cigar, inhaling 
its emanating cloud. 
“Do you presume that Einstein is dead?” Isela asked. 
“For all we know, that’s a possibility,” Eulalie pondered. “What we do 
know for certain is that all devices must have originated from Einstein, 
which means that whoever was in charge ordered duplicates in high 
amounts.” 
“And here’s what we found out so far,” Reklur proclaimed with 
enthusiasm. He told one of the policeman to turn back the pages to the 
strange logo. “They have a name,” Reklur said, hitting the paper with his 
flat hand. “Neo-Stalactites,” he announced with delight. 
“Neo-Luddites,“ Eulalie corrected him. 
“Exactly,” Reklur mumbled and moved on. “They’re a group of people 
who just can’t handle that the world is moving on and constantly 
changing.” 
The two policemen looked at Reklur, but kept their mouths shut and 
their hands behind their backs. 
Reklur crossed his arms. “Our theory is that they ordered several of 
these devices to destroy technology with its own poison; sort of as a 
message soaked in irony.” 
Xave shifted his weight and put out a doubting hand, palm upwards, as 
if he were begging for more details. “That’s their whole agenda? What’s 
with the shooter? And the guy who attacked us back in the storeroo m?” 
Eulalie sighed and replied: “They usually act on their own, but share 
information with each other. However, the recent acts of vandalism are in 
fact coordinated, but not by a single person. They set up meetings and 
agree to execute a suggested plan.” 
Tyra broke her silence and put a foot down. “You are admitting that 
you inflicted major damage in a public transport service, causing accidents 
and even deaths?” 
Reklur shook his head. “I’m having none of that. This is a critical part of 
our investigation to find the head of the snake. If holes in the cables cause 
problems, Mister Stern should be your contact person.” 
 
313 
“We talked through it before you arrived,” Xave countered. “We just 
shut everything off and we’re actively dealing with our affected 
customers.” 
“Well, there you have it,” Reklur said. 
Tyra recovered, but not before sending off another remark: “It might 
still have consequences, depending on the results of your experiment.” 
Reklur was about to shout back, but Eulalie put a hand in front of him 
and shook her head. 
“We’re doing the right thing, and here’s why,” Eulalie concluded. “We 
have gathered intel about a bigger target, an event which will give us a 
huge lead. We have conceived a plan to send out a police force to strike 
accordingly. However, we must remain as silent as possible and not blow 
our group’s cover.” 
The smoking mayor put out the cigar in the tray before him. “It ’s going 
to be tough keeping this under wraps,” he said with a raspy voice. 
“It’s definitely going to get irregular,” Reklur summed up. “But I’m 
positive, we’ll rid the world of the threat once and for all.” 
Reklur gestured at both policemen, and they started disassembling the 
chart. 
“Wait, we still have questions!” Xave intervened. “When will you have 
more information to share? When can we turn our network back on?” 
Eulalie looked at Reklur, then at Xave and said: “We don’t know yet. 
Please excuse us, we have to continue our investigation. There’s nothing 
more to share right now.” 
“When will you contact us again?” Isela wondered. 
“I suppose,” Reklur responded, picking up his hat. “Right before 
everything blows up in our faces. Good day, ladies and gentlemen.” 
 
314 
 
 
 
Heray and Calem were sitting across each other in the Trimond HQ 
restaurant. Nobody else was there this late in the evening, other than the 
policewoman idling at a privacy-respecting distance. 
“Want me to fire some random questions at you?” Heray asked, the 
muscles in his arms flexing while cutting a piece of meat on his plate. It 
could’ve been a blunt wooden knife and the sheer force would’ve split his 
food apart like butter. 
“No, I think I’m covered,” Calem answered, crunching on a green salad 
leaf as big as her mouth, and fishing for a small piece of baked chicken 
with her fork. 
“Have you done this before?” Heray asked in-between swallowing and 
chomping. 
“Eating in a restaurant, being with a man?” Calem asked in return. She 
took a quick glance at the policewoman and took a sip of her water.  
Heray smiled, but made a face that said: You know what I mean. 
Calem sighed. “Not really, I mean I talked to crowds before. I reckon 
that’s not going to be a normal crowd though.” 
“Well, you’re a beautiful lady, they have enough prejudice to treat you 
as one,” Heray said, trying to cheer her up and, yes, bluntly attempt to 
flirt. 
She scoffed. “My appearance will be my downfall, surely. Either they’ll 
treat me like a star, or they’ll treat me like I’m the dumbest person on the 
planet who’s just here because of her looks.” 
“You can’t give them a choice, you pick the way you want to be treated, 
and you play the part,” Heray concluded. 
“Alright, going to wear my super intelligent backup plan glasses then.” 
Calem put both fork and knife parallel to each other on her plate and 
shoved it to the edge of the table. She continued to lick her teeth with her 
tongue. “I was starving.” 

 
315 
“Same,” Heray said, digging for tomatoes in his salad bowl. “I had 
completely forgotten until my stomach was louder than the voices in front 
of the door.” 
The radio on the shoulder of the policewoman cracked and spit o ut 
indistinct words. 
“Trouble?” Heray asked her over his shoulder. 
The policewoman shook her head. “Not yet.” 
They had arranged five rows of folding chairs in the entrance hall, right 
in front of Calem’s desk; they’d hold the conference there. Heray had told 
the police that he and Calem would require a quick break before the show.  
After Heray had finished eating, the waiter took care of the dishes. 
They ordered coffee and enjoyed the silence for another ten minutes.  
“Take your time, okay?” Heray told her. 
“I can take care of myself, white knight,” Calem said. 
“I was just-” 
“Let’s go.” Calem stood up and went past the policewoman, leaving a 
half-empty cup behind. 
The audience had already been in place when Heray arrived in the 
entrance hall. All five rows of seats were taken, some photographers were 
standing and shooting. Jeremy and a dozen of his followers were gathered 
near the entrance, with three police bodies between them and the press.  
Everyone seemed to be chatting, but it was mostly inaudible to Heray.  
He wiped his hand over his neat ponytailed hair, stood next to Calem and 
crossed his arms, puffing up his appearance. 
Calem nodded. “I’ll take your questions now; please raise your hands.” 
Three news cameras started rolling. 
Calem pointed at one such raised hand, the owner of which - a woman - 
started talking immediately: “We have several reports of missing persons. 
How many people are stuck in the cables, like the son of Rick Lorand?”  
Calem smiled. “What happened to Rick’s son was an unprecedented 
tragic incident that is still under investigation. No further similar accidents 
have happened. We have no missing persons due to travelling; but we 
know that people are missing because they couldn’t travel back home and 
haven’t found a way to reach out to their friends and relatives yet. As you 
know, we started an initiative at all INSTANT stations to help out as best 
as we can.” 
“By handing out coffee and cookies?” the same woman asked 
sarcastically. 
 
316 
“Coffee and cookies do not in fact solve anything, it’s meant to be a 
gesture of goodwill to our customers while we’re working on the actual 
solution together, namely - getting people home safe and sound.” 
So far so good, Heray thought without moving an inch, doing his best to 
intimidate everyone in front of him. 
Calem pointed at a different hand. 
“Is Mr. Rick Lorand still with the company?” a well-dressed man asked. 
“Yes, he is still in charge of system security.” 
“How much longer will you put up with him? Clearly he’s the one 
responsible for everything.” the man continued. 
“He is indeed responsible for one of the safest means of transportation, 
if not the absolute safest, I see no reason not to put up with him. In fact, 
he’s not the one perforating INSTANT cables, he and his team are the ones 
who’re patching them up as we speak,” Calem answered calmly and shot 
her finger at another waving arm. 
But the person didn’t give up: “How can you rely on a man who has 
just lost his son and whose colleague lies in a hospital?” 
“Finding his son is top priority for him, which includes making 
travelling as secure as possible. He’s one-hundred percent focused on his 
task, I can assure you. As for Ms. Attenburg, I know she’ll recover,” Calem 
answered, her finger still targeting the next reporter. 
Heray saw Jeremy and his group getting nervous. 
“The doctors say, they don’t know what happened to her,” someone 
yelled out. “Are you sure it’s not in any way related to her being one of the 
first to use your machine?” 
Calem stretched out her hands. “Not going to answer that, you get to 
ask your question when it’s your turn.” 
So they got the doctors to talk, Heray thought, suppressing a frown. 
“Ms. Attenburg is going to die, isn’t she?” another woman asked 
through the forest of raised hands. 
Calem pointed at a different body and waited for an authorized 
question. 
“How long will INSTANT be down?” the male reporter voice asked.  
“We have to investigate every meter manually to make sure the cables 
are in best condition before we can resume business,” Calem answered. “I 
can give no time frame at this point.” 
“Who’s going to pay for that?” someone shouted. “You guys have no 
money, right?” 
Calem hesitated. “We have investors-” 
“You’re toying with government money.” 
 
317 
Calem shoved the glasses up the bridge of her nose and snapped: “I’m 
not your scapegoat, I’m here to provide the answers I’ve been given. I’m 
not here so you can have your way with me and spill blood for blood ’s 
sake. You will behave, raise your hands, ask in a civilized tone and I will 
respond as best as I can. We’re all humans, we have a problem, and I’m 
here to help you.” 
Half the press stared at her, others scribbled hectically on their 
notepads. 
Heray rearranged his tie and noticed Jeremy had turned into a statue.  
One brave hand rose up and Calem acknowledged its existence with a 
nod. 
The reporter asked: “There are rumours of slightly disarranged limbs 
after instant travelling and apparently doctors had to tell patients to refrain 
from using teleportation for up to two weeks to heal. What can you tell us 
about that?” 
“We don’t comment on rumours,” Calem dodged. 
Next hand rose up and its owner was allowed to speak: “I realize these 
are rumours, but I’m sure the general public would like some form of 
reassurance. Is INSTANT travelling safe?” 
“I appreciate that you want information on that topic but I’m not the 
appropriate person to answer technical questions. All I know is that we 
have been given regulations from several nations; there are conditions our 
system has to meet, we have scheduled routine tests and maintenance. 
Suffice to say, we are the safest way to travel.” Calem swallowed. 
“Technical difficulties such as the damages we’re dealing with right now 
are an unforeseen human intervention.” 
Jeremy spoke up: “Instant travelling is an unforeseen human 
intervention on nature.” He marched three steps towards Calem, the three 
policemen gently held him back at his arms. “These people are trying to 
right your wrongs out there. Humans weren’t made to be taken apart and 
reassembled like robots; how do you know we’re not already dead, devoid 
of our souls, the minute we’re blown up? We’re using machines that we 
don’t understand. It’s not natural. It’s not meant to be. I’m the prime 
example.” 
Heray tensed up and was ready to jump in front of Calem, but then 
Jeremy just shook his head, freed himself from the police gloves and left 
the building, followed by his confused disciples. 
 
318 
Calem recovered and aimed to take control of the situation. 
“Nevertheless, statistics support the safety of INSTANT travelling – we 
offer the safest means of transportation. Our plans to rebuild and 
strengthen our cables with Kevlar coating should show you how serious 
we take the well-being of our clients.” 
The room went silent. 
Calem continued: “This is also where I’d like to announce that we will 
soon release a new service – mass transportation. It will allow our 
customers to save even more time.” 
A reporter unfroze. “I’m sorry, what? People are missing out there, 
children are missing, for heaven’s sake. And you’re thinking about new 
products? Getting creative with new ways to kill us?” 
Other voices chimed in and supported his negative tone. 
“No, no-” Calem said, holding up her hands in defence. 
The same reporter apologized sarcastically: “I’m sorry, but that’s how I 
heard it.” 
Calem raised her voice. “This is not a murder game to us! Yes, we’re in 
a shitty situation, but we also have content customers, whom we owe a 
positive stance and an optimistic outlook. We can’t just be all doom and 
gloom.” 
That was it. People jumped from their seats and threw curse words at 
her. 
“Can’t be all doom and gloom, huh? Gotta cover up the stink, throw 
some flowers on it,” someone shouted in disgust. 
Calem blinked, then she shot a look at Heray. 
“Enough for today,” Heray said. He opened his giant arms and slowly 
cleared the entrance hall like a snowplough. “Good night everyone,” he 
said. “Show’s over,” he repeated a few times. 
 
319 
 
 
 
The smoke clouded the tavern like the early morning mist hovering above 
the fields outside. 
Leonard slowly drank his coffee, cherishing every drop for its warmth 
and the stimulating effect it had on his body. He took another bite from his 
breakfast - white bread with butter and honey - and washed it down with 
more coffee. 
People around him were enjoying their morning meals just as well; the 
tavern was small and could only serve a dozen people at a time. The two 
tables were fully occupied, so were the five seats at the bar. Almost 
everyone was watching the TV screen as it proclaimed the news.  
Apparently the entire Trimond network had been shut down the night 
before. They showed excerpts from a press conference with a woman 
Leonard didn’t recognize; he thought there had used to be a different 
spokesperson. 
Apparently the damage to the cables had brought down the whole net, 
they had reached a point where the risk of casualties had been simply too 
high. 
The reporter narrating and connecting the loose pieces of information 
announced future plans of the Trimond company, namely a complete 
overhaul of the cable structures with a strong Kevlar coating and mass 
transport. They showed images of the aftermath of said announcement, 
reporters shouting, the camera man losing control and shaking the image, 
followed by more protests outside of the Trimond building. Police had 
cleared the scene peacefully, but Leonard was sure that hadn’t been the 
end of it. 
Leonard looked at Bellward, who was tilting a jug of cocoa against his 
mouth. He remembered Bellward’s round doomsday device; the turning 
crank that had activated it before making that loud noise and evaporating 
anything it had touched into dust behind Bellward’s large back. Leonard 
felt certain that a different coating wouldn’t have helped keeping the 
cables intact. 

 
320 
The people at the table next to them started applauding when the 
broadcast displayed a dozen different videos and photos of marred , 
leaking cables. 
“That should show them,” an elder woman said. 
“Awesome job, man,” a muscular man on a bar stool bellowed; he was 
just within reach to hit Bellward on his shoulder. 
Unable to catch his breath, the reporter continued the coverage: 
Apparently just an hour ago the Trimond company had started to cover up 
their INSTANT stations and hand out coffee and cookies for people that 
had arrived to commute to their workplace or were stranded there and 
needed a way to get home. 
“Good job, Bellward,” Leonard said. 
Bellward caught Leonard’s sarcasm. “You think I did this? I just 
punched a dozen holes. Do you realize how big that network is?”  
“You still had a hand in it, I mean you became a local hero because you 
slayed the biggest farmer threat – a colossal cable scarecrow.” Leonard had 
made the conscious choice to say it just so only Bellward could hear it.  
Bellward glared at Leonard. “You’re damn right, I had a hand in it. I’m 
not even sorry.” 
He wiped his mouth with his right arm and stood up to leave the 
tavern. 
Marla, who was sitting right next to Leonard, finished her coffee. She 
hadn’t eaten anything; her white plate was clean. Leaning forward, she 
whispered to Leonard: “I know he enjoys this all a little too much, but 
please believe me when I say, we have a plan. And we’ve got to stick to it.” 
“What kind of plan?” Leonard asked. Suspicious ears twitched around 
him. 
Marla shook her head and looked around, as if to say, “Not here.” 
Just when the smoke and the tension got unbearable, Bellward returned 
to them and said: “We’re leaving.” 
The town folks were displeased. 
“Already? Why?” a young farmer asked. 
“It’s not over yet, we’re bringing the fight to them,” Bellward said. 
Leonard noticed a hint of pride. 
Marla seemed relieved. “Finally,” she said and stood up, taking 
Leonard outside with her, right after Bellward. 
As they sat down in their car, the assumed leader approached the 
driver’s window. 
“Do you need help? We could tag along,” he offered, still holding a cup 
of something hot. 
 
321 
Bellward refused. “Nope, we gotta do this on our own, thanks though. 
I’ll check back once I’m done.” 
The leader shrugged and moved back into the tavern. The crowd that 
had built up around them lost interest and dispersed. 
“Not the farewell celebration you expected?” Leonard said from the 
backseat. 
Bellward turned around, his seat creaking, shooting a fierce look at 
Leonard. “You should be glad I can’t just kick your ass out,” he said. 
“What’s holding you back?” Leonard asked curiously. 
Bellward retreated, started the car and jumped on the gas pedal. “None 
of your business.” 
Leonard thought to just exit the moving car, but the town inhabitants 
were just a bit too unsettling. Besides - for some reason he felt like he had 
to come along, even if just to protect Marla from Bellward, who seemed to 
slowly lose patience and mind over a matter which Leonard hadn’t quite 
figured out yet. 
He realized Marla wasn’t beautiful, but even though, or exactly because 
of that, he had begun to feel... closer. Feeling protective sent old memories 
back into Leonard’s vision. Was it just a seemingly long forgotten pattern 
that had snuck up on him? Was his mind trying to relive the routines of a 
couple? 
Leonard looked at Marla’s face from the side as she once again checked 
out the list, the final item reading “INSTANT HQ”. 
“What are we going to do?” Leonard decided to ask, if only to break the 
awkward silence. 
“You’ll see,” Bellward replied aggressively. Leonard could hear 
Bellward’s grip tighten around the steering wheel. 
Marla hid behind strands of her low hanging hair. 
“Look,” Leonard said, trying to make amends for his earlier biting 
remarks. “You have your reasons as to why I have to accompany you and 
why you can’t reveal your ultimate goal, I realize that, and by now it’s no 
matter if you tell me or not – I simply want you to know I’m on your side.” 
“On whose? Mine or Marla’s?” Bellward shot back. 
Marla’s, of course, Leonard thought. “Both,” he said. It was no lie. He 
had known the early version of Bellward and he had come to enjoy his 
company; so much so that he now worried that he might go down a path 
he wouldn’t be able to retreat from. 
“Just promise me you’re not doing something you’re going to regret,” 
Leonard said, trying to settle on that point at least. 
 
322 
Bellward caught Leonard’s look in the back mirror. After a moment 
Bellward replied: “We’re not evil, if that’s what you mean.” 
“You seemed to enjoy destroying cables,” Leonard added. 
“I had to let off some steam,” Bellward defended himself. “I can’t tell 
you, I’ve been told not to tell you. It’s probably better I just shut up again.” 
Marla looked back at Leonard. There was a trace of a distant smile 
around her mouth. 
Half an hour later on the highway they passed a truck loaded with a 
giant connector piece with a Trimond logo plastered all over it. The  truck 
had two dozen small tires and took up two of the three lanes. Two smaller 
cars with orange blinking warning lights accompanied it front and back to 
keep other cars from getting too close. 
Two more of the same truck and warning car constellations followed. 
The carried pieces were gigantic compared to Bellward’s car and for a 
second Leonard felt like swimming alongside a whale family. A vision 
showed him a glimpse into what would happen if the pieces came loose 
and rolled over the street at their current speed. 
Marla had turned on the radio, which kept bringing up the “ongoing 
maintenance of INSTANT stations” between songs of the 80s. The news 
lady had also mentioned the controversy of the newly announced product 
of mass transportation and had summarized people’s opinions as “bad 
taste” in light of all the stranded and missing people. 
Fifteen minutes later they crossed the city’s borders, and another fifteen 
minutes passed until they arrived a block away from the Trimond HQ.  
The commotion in front of the converted hotel blocked all traffic. 
Leonard estimated that there were a hundred people protesting, some of 
which were sitting on parked cars. Police did their job and kept them at a 
safe distance from the HQ, but Leonard easily imagined people throwing 
rocks at the windows. 
Stationed policemen and women were redirecting traffic as best as they 
could.  
Bellward turned left before being seen and took another turn right 
afterwards. 
“Should be here,” he said, slowing down the car and pointing at a 
garage door at the base of a seven-story apartment building. 
Marla reached for a tiny remote control and pressed one of the two 
buttons. 
The garage door creaked and folded upwards; Bellward drove through 
and into the inner courtyard, a small place in-between several of the 
apartment blocks. 
 
323 
A dozen shady people eyed their car suspiciously. Bellward stopped 
and got out, signalling Marla and Leonard to stay inside. 
“There you are,” a man said as he came closer. 
Bellward shut the door. 
Leonard recognized the device on the man’s back: It was the same 
vaporizing gun Bellward had used. He looked at the rest of the figures 
through the car’s windshield – all of them carried the same weapons. 
Hoping he would see the same startled emotion on Marla’s face, he 
looked at her – but instead, there was the dreaded realization of known 
future events coming true. 
She knew, Leonard repeated in his head. Everything. 
“Why is it you couldn’t tell me any of this?” Leonard whispered 
through the silence of the car and over the muffled voices from outside. 
“We were never sure which information you were given access to,” 
Marla replied in a low voice. 
“What does that mean? Who’s giving you orders?” 
Marla turned to look Leonard straight in his eyes. “Reklur.” 
That took some time to comprehend. “Are you saying, he’s 
orchestrating an attack on Trimond property?” 
“No,” Marla said, nervously eyeing Bellward from the side of her eyes.  
Before she could continue, Bellward turned around and opened the 
door on his side. 
“Let’s go,” he said. 
Marla frowned at him and shook her head. 
Bellward shrugged and got his vacuum-cleaner shaped tool from the 
trunk. 
 
324 
 
 
 
“We have to move,” Heray decided, looking at the growing crowd outside 
of the Trimond building. 
“Where to?” Calem asked. She was sitting in the front row of the chairs 
they had assembled for the press earlier that day. “Why do we have to 
move? Can’t they just arrest everyone?” 
Heray knew she wasn’t serious, but he forgot to acknowledge her 
remark with a smirk. He remembered audiences at rock concerts, 
especially the moments where he had known when a fight would start. 
Usually, there had been a kind of spark in the air, an ever-intensifying 
cloud of aggression, on the brink of eruption. 
“Walter was supposed to be here by now,” Heray said. 
“The road’s blocked, nobody gets close by car, and I’m not sure he 
would try going through that nice group of onlookers,” Calem theorized.  
“And he can’t teleport here either,” Heray added. 
Calem looked at him incredulously. “First of all, it’s travelled,” she 
joked. “Second, Walter doesn’t travel.” 
“Right, I keep forgetting, that’s a bit odd, isn’t it?” 
Calem’s phone rang. “Again?” 
“You had your sixty seconds break, what more do you want?” This 
time he did smirk. “Stay seated, I’ll get it,” he said, feeling guilty. 
He moved around the counter and picked up the receiver. “Trimond 
HQ, this is Heray Peer speaking. What can I do-” 
A breathless voice shouted in Heray’s ear: “Get out of the building, 
move, now!” 
Used to pranks, Heray got a hold of his initial adrenaline rush and 
asked: “Who am I talking to?” 
“Inspector Reklur, now get the f-” 
A loud exploding noise destroyed the glass front of the entrance hall. 
People started screaming and running in all directions. 
“I said, get the fuck out of there,” Reklur finished yelling and hung up. 

 
325 
Calem had run for cover behind the counter almost instantly. Her eyes 
were wide, but she didn’t panic. 
For another long second Heray observed the scene on the street outside. 
Police tried to control the situation and to locate where the explosion had 
originated from. Two officers were frantically roaring into their radios. 
From afar, Heray couldn’t figure out if anyone had been hurt. He let the 
receiver land on the table, grabbed Calem’s arm and rushed with her to the 
elevator. 
The elevator doors opened as Heray was about to punch the button. 
Standing inside was no one other than Rick. 
“What’s happening?” he asked. “I just wanted to check up on you two 
and now I’m hearing bombs go off or something.” 
Heray pushed Calem inside and followed. As he pressed the button for 
one of the parking garage sub floors, he inquired: “Anyone else still in the 
building?” 
Rick, who looked like a vampire to Heray, shook his head. “We sent 
everyone out for repairs or covering up our shit after shutting everything 
down.” His eyes drifted off. 
Heray was taken aback by Rick’s cursing, but remained silent. 
“What about the cooking staff?” Calem asked. 
Rick shrugged. “Some insane person ordered coffee and cookies for 
everyone. Not that our cooks provide everything, but, you know.” 
Can’t argue with his choice of words, Heray thought. 
The elevator arrived and the doors opened. 
A group of gloomy strangers stared at Heray, Rick and Calem. In the 
foreground, there were a large, muscular man, a woman hiding behind 
him and a slender male figure in a worn out coat. The big one held a large 
circular plate and aimed it at Heray. 
One of the men from the back, all of whom wielded the same strange 
device, shouted: “Get rid of them.” 
The explosion – it had been a diversion, Heray realized in horror. These 
people had entered the building forcefully through holes in the ceiling of 
the parking floor, leading to the street behind the Trimond HQ building. 
How did they- 
A whistle rang through everyone’s ears; uniformed rescuers jumped 
through the same holes and landed gracefully on their feet, immediately 
drawing weapons. 
 
326 
The garage area felt crowded all of a sudden. Just as Heray had made 
sense of the situation, the big fellow in front of him stepped inside the 
elevator and pushed Heray back by pressing the large round device 
against Heray’s chest with incredible force. Calem gasped, tripped and fell 
backwards into the elevator while Rick had swiftly evaded and was now 
standing outside. 
The young woman and the slender man were seemingly surprised, and 
before they could follow their apparent leader – the elevator doors closed. 
“Halt,” a policeman shouted, the loud echo through the garage hall 
dying between the closing elevator doors. 
Somebody must have called for it, Heray realized – then he tensed up his 
right arm into a ball of raw muscle force and jerked the round device away 
from his body. While his opponent hadn’t seen it coming, he also hadn’t 
lost grip of it, but the force threw him off balance. 
Heray followed his action with a right foot kick to the man’s stomach, 
pushing him against the closed doors. The elevator bounced violently.  
Calem covered her head and remained seated on the ground; there was 
enough room for maybe ten people, but the two fighting colossi turned the 
whole space into a tight arena. 
“I don’t want to hurt you or your girlfriend here,” the big man 
proclaimed while regaining his balance. “I’m just here to destroy your 
equipment.” 
“How kind,” Heray replied. “I don’t want to hurt you either, I’m just 
here to protect said equipment.” 
“Seems like we’re at an impasse,” the bulky man assessed. 
“Wrong,” Heray said. “Only you are.” He sent his right balled up fist 
flying through the air like a wrecking ball, but his opponent raised his 
device just in time to deflect the attack with a loud clanking noise. Seeing it 
coming half-way, Heray had already prepared his left hook to move 
around the round shape to hit his opponent in the right side. 
The man roared, but not because of pain, just increasing anger. With 
Heray still in position for his left hook, the man raised his knee to Heray’s 
chin, hitting hard. 
Heray was used to that kind of encounter from a fist, but a knee was a 
whole other level of pain. 
Then Heray’s face met with the cold round metallic shape. The push 
made him stumble, fall. Calem watched him wide-eyed as he hit the back 
of his head. How much more could Heray take? 
“Just let me do my job,” the stranger requested. 
 
327 
Calem shot up and slapped the man hard on his temple. Once, twice, 
and a third time – before the man wiped her away with his right arm. 
Heray used the opening to kick the round device upwards with his foot 
so hard that it finally escaped its owner’s hand and crashed into the light 
on the ceiling. One of the two fluorescent light bulbs shattered and rained 
down on the three passengers. The elevator groaned and creaked but still 
continued his way up. 
The man tried to catch his device with both hands – but instead, a sharp 
gasping sound escaped his mouth; the device crashed to the floor and 
began to lead a life of its own, while smoke was pouring out of the man’s 
backpack. 
Heray sprang to his feet and as he heard a loud whirring noise he 
jumped to the side just in time. 
A split second later dust shot out behind the stranger and a large hole 
appeared half on the ground and half on the wall where Heray had just 
been leaning against. Cables dangled in the elevator shaft and lights flew 
by in regular intervals. The sounds of the moving elevator were heard loud 
and clear now. 
Every one of the passengers coughed vehemently; Heray forced one of 
his eyes open and once more tried to smash the man’s face in. His fist 
cracked against the jaw, but it didn’t leave much of an impression. This 
time he didn’t see the retaliation coming in the cloud – and a massive boot 
tore skin down through his jeans on his right shin. 
Heray cursed; which was a rare reaction. Meanwhile Calem had 
recovered and attempted to throw several punches and kicks near the 
giant’s private area. 
The elevator ground to a halt just as the man was about to smack 
Calem’s skull – and the doors opened. 
“Put your hands up in the air,” an old voice instructed with authority.  
The towering man with the smoking backpack turned around and said: 
“Inspector Reklur.” 
Heray jumped at him from behind and, by hanging onto the 
contraption, they both fell like two dinosaurs, the man’s face digging into 
the floor. 
“Watch out, Heray,” Reklur said, holstering his gun. “This man just 
saved your life.” 
Calem ran past Reklur, her dress and hair full of dust. A policeman 
held a hand out to her and walked her outside of the building, where 
several emergency lights illuminated the house on the opposite side of the 
Trimond HQ. 
 
328 
Heray slowly stood up and let the man go. “He wanted to destroy 
company equipment, not to mention our faces,” Heray said confused.  
“Yeah, yeah,” Reklur said, waving a hand. “He just didn’t want to blow 
his cover. All’s fine now. Right, Bellward?” 
The man on the ground sighed. 
 
329 
 
 
 
Xave’s right leg fidgeted, while Walter was blowing smoke into the air. 
They were sitting on a comfy couch in Walter’s suite, the bullet proof 
windows darkened with drapes that had gone out of style ten years ago. 
There was a policeman leaning against the door, reading a car magazine.  
The salesman and the scientist stared at the TV’s images of the 
surrounding area of the Trimond HQ, which looked like a war zone. There 
were half a dozen bodies lying around, debris filling the streets and fog 
covering the violence as if it were trying to hide what humans do in their 
spare time. 
Xave’s fingers mindlessly played with his father’s golden watch. 
“So,” Xave broke the silence. 
Walter nodded slowly. “It seems people don’t like us that much.” 
“People like us just fine,” Xave countered, still looking at the TV. His 
leg continued to shake nervously. 
“They copied my technology to create weapons and tried to turn them 
against us,” Walter drove home his point. 
“The absolute highest form of flattery,” Xave concluded. 
“They wanted to show us how bad this technology really is,” Walter 
clinged to his despair. 
“Nah, I’m telling you, everyone loves us, there are just different ways of 
showing affection. This right there was a love letter,” Xave said, waving at 
the screen. 
The policeman turned a page behind them. 
“How long do we have to be here?” the scientist asked, blowing 
another cloud out of his mouth. 
“Until you’re out of cigarettes and quit smoking,” Xave jested. 
“I did quit, I just found this last pack and I don’t have anything else to 
do.” 
“Aren’t you usually getting high on doing visionary calculations in 
your brain?”  

 
330 
Walter shook his head and leaned forward to kill the glowing cigarette 
in the ashtray on the glass table. “I can do both at the same time.”  
“And what are you calculating?” 
“How long we’re going to be stuck in here,” Walter said. 
They had brought Walter in with a police escort after finding him on 
the way to the Trimond HQ, just like Xave himself. These had been Xave ’s 
orders; the police had wanted to bring them to their station, but Xave had 
insisted that they still had to keep working on bringing the INSTANT 
network back up. But now they had to stay in there until the street had 
been cleared. 
Rick, Calem and Heray had been taken to a hospital, mostly for routine 
checks. Xave was told that Rick had received a blow to the head when the 
garage had been raided, but allegedly no life threatening injuries. 
The phone in the room didn’t work, which made Xave even more 
agitated. 
“I need to make some calls,” he mumbled. 
“I need to tend to my mistakes,” Walter joined in. “I already know what 
I have to do once I can get back to work.” 
“Yeah? That sounds great,” Xave said. To his own surprise there was no 
hint of any sarcasm. “Getting everything back on track sounds just great.”  
“I still don’t know what to do about Kristella or Rick’s son,” Walter 
lamented. “I tried to convince myself that they weren’t my responsibility, I 
told myself I had other top priorities right now.” 
“Let Samir handle those two small fish.” 
Walter turned to him. “They’re not small fish.” 
“Well, look at the ocean we’re drowning in right now, yeah, they are 
small fish, that’s what you have an assistant for.” 
Samir was in Egypt right now, but Xave had asked to send policemen 
to him as well, just like other employees. A whole army only to protect the 
Trimond company; Xave had been forced to talk way too much for his  
liking to get the mayors and other higher ups to do that, instead of just 
throwing everyone in one “prison” for their own safety. 
“I imagined all people that are stranded right now or in danger because 
of me, and I saw them all screaming, then I caught a glimpse of Kristella in 
hospital, the cold steel bed and the sterile white surroundings. And I 
realized that even though a thousand hearts are louder than her single 
heart...” Walter paused and looked away. “I can still only hear hers.”  
Xave slapped the scientist. “You are not falling in love with an 
employee, you fool. Do you even know what love is? Have your parents 
taught you that in their absence?” 
 
331 
Walter looked smitten. 
“You’re a scientist, Walter,” Xave stated. “You’re not here to make 
babies, that’s what all those brainless idiots are there for. Those are the 
ones you’re going to save. If you go blind with shit like love, all those 
babies won’t get born. Don’t you realize in what kind of position you’re in? 
Don’t you see the hundreds of distant relationships you’ve made possible? 
You don’t have time for love, you’re here so others can get busy, but you 
can’t, that’s a fact.” Xave grit his teeth. “And neither do I.” 
They sat in silence for a minute, listening to the policeman behind them 
shifting weights and turning pages. His radio let loose the occasional 
fragments of police chatter. 
“My parents love me,” Walter said. 
“They bred a geek so they can improve their tourism tours,” Xave 
argued. 
“What did your parents do to you?” 
Xave remembered the only memories he had. “They showed me that 
love alone doesn’t get you food on the table.” 
Walter disagreed. “You’re not after food. You want everything else. 
Food’s an optional thing for you, like dessert.” 
“I fulfill people’s desires,” Xave noted. “I saw a desire in you. A puny 
scientist with a grand idea, which he wanted to show to the world. 
Unfortunately, you only made it into the trash news nobody cared about.” 
Xave poked Walter’s cheek. “I made your desire happen.” 
The scientist moved back from the demeaning gesture. Xave didn’t 
care. “You’re in this with me. You can’t back out because little Mister 
Trimond has caught the scent of a female. I’m the only partner you’ll ever 
get from now on, and I’m all about business and no pleasure.” 
Xave’s thoughts burned inside. Why blow so much potential away for 
an earthly relationship when you could affect all of humanity?  
“Were you ever in love, Xave?” 
“I thought I was,” Xave responded. “I ran after a girl for months, and 
when she finally agreed to go out with me, I threw her away.” 
“Why?” 
Xave shrugged. He remembered the classroom and how the girl had 
wept and how the girl’s friends had thrown accusing looks in his direction. 
“I realized I only loved the hunt. Plus, tears bear a different sort of reward: 
I felt powerful.” 
Xave had lowered his voice enough for Walter to hear. 
“Didn’t you love your mother?” Walter still continued. 
 
332 
“I tell you the most disgusting thing in the world, and you still don ’t 
give up?” Xave shot back. “My mother is a stranger.” 
That hurt to say more than Xave wanted to admit. 
“You’re lying,” Walter seemed to notice. “You visited your parents’ 
grave regularly. Don’t tell me that was just a bad habit like smoking.” 
Xave swallowed a bitter taste in his mouth. “It’s true that I get 
sentimental sometimes, but I have a mission now, I’m making dreams 
come true, I can save people’s time. I’m a hero, you’re a hero. Time is more 
precious than love, don’t you think?” 
“True love is timeless,” Walter concluded. 
“You’re making me puke,” Xave said, disgusted. “I made a contract 
with a hopeless romantic.” 
“I hurt Kristella,” Walter said. “I didn’t feel power, I felt powerless. I 
was confused because I had just realized my true calling, and seeing her 
unconscious body made me doubt my goals. The truth is, if I save her I can 
save myself, which in turn will impact everyone else. If I let Kristella die, 
I’m afraid I will die along with her.” 
Xave only saw the negative impact on the company’s image when the 
current matters weren’t resolved immediately. Why couldn’t Walter see it? 
Of course, a dead Kristella wouldn’t look too good on the company’s rep 
sheet either... 
“Alright,” Xave gave in. “You go give your princess a kiss, so she may 
wake up again. I’ll deal with the raging mob meanwhile.” 
“As soon as we’re allowed to leave,” Walter sighed. 
“You don’t want to get bombs thrown on your head, do you? 
Apparently the weather is a little explosive this time of the year.”  
“Didn’t they catch all of them?” Walter asked. 
“Who knows, according to Inspector Reklur, it may run a little deeper 
than that.” 
Reklur had vaguely explained the situation to Xave a few hours ago, 
but even his understandings of human expressions had failed at 
deciphering the ramblings of the Inspector. 
The TV showed an interview with Jeremy, whose sentences only 
brought down the Trimond company. 
“What a pain in the ass,” Xave remarked. 
Walter reached for his cigarette pack. “Do you think Kristella will turn 
out just like him?” 
Xave didn’t know. “Nah, she’ll be fine,” he guessed. 
Walter lit his last cigarette and sighed. 
 
333 
 
 
 
“Good morning,” a deep voice said. It belonged to a huge man sitting in a 
chair next to his hospital bed. His greeting was directed towards Rick, who 
shared the room and was still lying in his own bed at the opposite wall.  
Rick groaned and pulled himself up using the triangle grip dangling 
above him. “Morning,” he managed to say. 
The giant upheaved himself from his chair, walked three steps towards 
Rick and stretched out his large hand. “Name’s Bellward.” 
Rick changed hands in the triangle and gave the man a tight handshake 
in return. “I’m Rick.” 
“You’re the leading technician in Trimond HQ, they told me,” Bellward 
said. 
Rick felt caught off guard, but nodded. “And who are you?” 
“I’m a nobody,” Bellward replied and sat back in his chair with a 
satisfied grunt. 
“You just happen to infiltrate random buildings every now and then?” 
Rick asked. He clearly remembered the face from the garage when he had 
escaped the elevator to evade Bellward’s attack. 
“I’ve been told to do that, I had no choice,” Bellward explained and 
looked outside the only window in the room through the ugly yellow 
curtains. “They caught us stealing property, your property in fact, they ’d 
use that as leverage against us.” 
“Who?” Rick inquired, moved his legs outside of the bed and stepped 
onto the ground with bare feet. 
“The police,” Bellward said. “Inspector Reklur came up to us and said 
we had two choices; the first choice involved some jail time and a hefty 
fine we would’ve never been able to pay.” 
The mechanic poured himself some water out of a glass jug into a 
plastic cup, which were both standing on a small white bedside table. His 
head spun and he remembered a large round device flying right towards 
his head. 

 
334 
After a pause, Bellward continued. “The second option we were given 
saw us joining a group of people who didn’t care for INSTANT travelling 
that much, just so we could share some info with the police every now and 
then. And in return my family only had to sit behind bars until things got 
resolved.” 
After swallowing the whole glass down in one gulp, Rick stood up and 
put on his jeans and a shirt, both hanging on the unclaimed chair next to 
him. “You have a family?” 
“Excuse me?” Bellward asked, apparently hurt. 
“I mean, how do you have a family, if your job is to steal?” Rick tri ed to 
recover, while putting on socks and shoes. 
Bellward put his feet on the table next to him. “Look, we’re not blood 
related or anything, we met by chance, we’ve become friends, we all live 
on the streets, we grew on each other. We realized the only thi ng that 
mattered is the one thing we already had - us. I care for them more than for 
anything else, thus they are my family. They had my back when I needed 
support, they never let me down. Sure, they make fun of me every now 
and then, but that’s how I know they love me as much as I love them.” 
“I have a family as well,” Rick said. “I would do anything for them.”  
“Ah, you lost your son, right?” Bellward realized, crossing his muscular 
arms. 
Rick shook his head. “He’s not lost. I just haven’t found a way to get 
him back yet. That is exactly why I have to return to the headquarters.”  
“They won’t let you leave.” Bellward stood up and came closer to Rick. 
“Police is super paranoid right now, apparently we’re all in danger. You 
heard the bomb go off, right?” 
Rick remembered the sound of an explosion and the vibrations on the 
ground. “Yeah.” 
“The group I belonged to was out to destroy all your equipment, erase 
everything the Trimond company has ever made,” Bellward said. “They 
caught my group, but I have no idea who actually caused the explosion. 
You see? Lots more people involved that still need to be dealt with. 
They’re still running around out there, ready to bash heads in.”  
“I don’t care,” Rick said and opened the door. Two policemen 
immediately stared at him from outside. 
“Morning, Rick,” the left one said and tipped his hat. “Can’t let you out 
right now, I’m sorry. It’s for your own good.” 
“You don’t have to be sorry for following orders,” Rick said. “I would 
like to call my wife. She’s being taken care of in Brussels by the Trimond 
company right now, and she needs to know that I’m alright.” 
 
335 
“You have a phone right there beside your bed,” the policeman said, 
pointing behind Rick. 
“It’s not possible to call another country with that, I’ve tried,” Rick lied. 
“He’s right,” Bellward chimed in over Rick’s shoulder. 
Rick tried not to smile. 
The policemen looked at each other, then the left one said: “You don ’t 
have to bullshit us, Rick. We know about your son, you probably want to 
go back to the Trimond building, right?” 
Rick grinned awkwardly. “Yes, I’d like that.” 
“The doctors need to clear you out first though, I don’t want you dying 
on the way.” 
“Sure,” Rick agreed. 
 
Thirty minutes later, Rick sat in a police car and was escorted back to 
the Trimond hotel through heavy rush hour traffic. 
When they reached the hotel, the policeman parked in the middle of the 
street, right where the police lines cut off the entrance. There were all kinds 
of people cleaning up and making sense of the destruction. All the bodies 
had been removed and only dried blood remained on the streets. There 
was a hole inside the house opposite to the Trimond building where the 
entrance and two windows had used to be. It offered a look inside 
previously inhabited rooms, making it seem like an over-sized dollhouse. 
The uniformed driver guided Rick past the debris, up the stairs and 
through the broken glass front. 
“You probably shouldn’t use the elevator,” the policeman said, 
pointing at the staircase. 
The elevator doors were open and showed the destroyed wall in the 
back, revealing the insides of the shaft. Rick nodded in agreement and took 
the stairs. 
“Is Walter here?” Rick asked while moving up step by step. 
“Uh-huh,” the policeman responded. 
“I want to talk to him first,” Rick said. 
 
As soon as they arrived at Walter’s suite, Rick and his bodyguard 
greeted the guards stationed there. 
One of them knocked on the door and a few moments later Walter 
opened it. 
“Good day, Rick,” Walter said, shaking his hand. “How are you?” 
 
336 
“My head’s spinning,” Rick answered, “but the doc says I’ll be alright. 
Listen, Walter. I need to save my son, and I want you to help me. I know 
you said there’s no hope left, but I’m sure if we go over the details again 
we can figure something out. Like, a fail-safe, some form of restoration.” 
Walter waved his hands in refusal. “No, no, no, Rick, I know we’re 
talking about your son, but the chances are practically zero. I am sorry for 
my bluntness, and I wish I had more heartwarming alternatives to offer.”  
Rick pleaded one more time, but Walter only apologized again. 
“Now, now,” a voice from behind Walter resounded. “Don’t be so 
melodramatic, Walter.” 
Xave appeared and moved in front of the scientist. “Walter can’t be 
bothered right now, he needs to save his princess. You, however, have a 
son to catch, so I’ve already asked Samir to stand by your side with all his 
might. He’s waiting for you in your work studio.” 
Hungry for any solution, Rick simply nodded. “Of course.” 
Walter tipped on Xave’s shoulder and said indignantly: “You haven’t 
told me about this, you can’t just assign tasks to my assistant without me 
knowing. Besides, I wasn’t even aware Samir was already back in the 
building.” 
Xave turned to the scientist and smiled wryly. “I’m trying to help you 
get a clear head to solve the bigger issues here, let me micromanage the 
rest, alright?” With a satisfied face, Xave said to Rick: “He’ll get back your 
son, trust me.” 
The door closed, as if by magic, and Rick was left standing outside with 
the equally dumbfounded uniformed men. 
He went down the stairs, followed by his attached guard, and stormed 
into the suite on his floor; the one with all the monitors. 
Samir was hunching over a keyboard, typing furiously. “Rick, how nice 
to see you, my friend,” Samir exclaimed, stood up and shook Rick ’s hand. 
“I was just about ready to start bringing back your son.” 
Rick ignored all the strange imagery on his monitors. “You located 
him? Where is he?” 
“Well,” Samir said with a broad grin. “Do you still have his bracelet? 
The one with all his saved data?” 
Rick rolled up his left sleeve to show the bracelet around his arm.  
“Very good, with this it will be super easy,” Samir rejoiced. 
“I’m not sure how you can be so happy right now,” Rick said, feeling 
an urge to kick Samir’s teeth in. 
“Who’s this?” Samir asked, gesturing at the policeman behind Rick. 
“I’m just taking care of him,” the policeman said. 
 
337 
“Give us a minute, we’ll be right back,” Samir said, grabbing Rick by 
his arm and dragging him outside. 
They went down another floor, into a storage room. The lights were on, 
but the long lines of dismantled INSTANT booths and ghostly electronic 
experiments entangled in thick wires blocked out most of them. 
“Come here, come here,” Samir said, waving Rick continuously. “Hand 
me your bracelet.” 
They arrived at a disfigured booth made out of green glass, it was 
connected by a black cable thick as a human body to a rectangular silver 
box which was half as high as Rick. 
Three monitors blinked and showed similar text messages as the ones 
in Rick’s room. They all were hooked up to the eerie booth and to a 
towering cupboard filled with computer internals. 
“What have you been up to? I’ve never seen anything like this,” Rick 
noticed. 
“I was given green light to work on wireless travelling by Xave 
himself,” Samir explained, typing words and pushing buttons with finesse 
and precision. 
Rick remembered: “I heard Walter was against wireless travelling.”  
“Nonsense,” Samir laughed. “It was his idea! He just didn’t want to 
work on it anymore, he has his hands full, you know?” 
A loud machine noise started, slowly winding up, then repeating a 
certain sequence of clicks and cracks. 
Samir stretched out his thin hand and said: “The bracelet, please.” 
“Explain to me how this works,” Rick said, not feeling well about any 
of what his eyes saw. 
“Your son will appear in that booth,” Samir said sharply. “Using the 
information stored in the bracelet.” 
“Can you locate him with the bracelet or what?” 
Samir looked up at the booth and then back at Rick and said: “Yes.”  
“The INSTANT network isn’t running, though,” Rick continued to stall. 
“Where’s my son? Is he still in the cables?” 
“I don’t have time to explain,” Samir evaded. “The machine is running, 
I need your bracelet, I swear to you, I will bring your son back to you, my 
friend.” 
It took only a quick memory of Rick embracing his baby and the smile 
of Roanne to make him hand over Bernand’s bracelet. Samir grabbed it 
hastily, connected a thin cable to it and let it dangle. He darted past Rick 
and opened the silver box to check on the contents. 
 
338 
A foul smell drove up Rick’s nose and made him retch; he instinctively 
turned away and covered his face in his right arm. 
Samir let the lid fall down again, jumped back to his monitors and gave 
the machine more commands. The whirring sped up, and Rick wasn’t sure 
how to cover his nose in addition to his ears. 
The noise became disrupting, the stench crawled through his nostrils, 
and there was a sudden light yearning to erase his eye sight. 
And then, there he was, surrounded by silence. 
The door of the green booth opened and Rick caught the body of his 
unconscious son. 
 
339 
 
 
 
Bloody tissues had piled up overnight; Kristella coughed into another one 
and let it roll down the heap next to her on the nightstand. 
She was lying on her side in the hospital bed, the fresh sheets had made 
her feel slightly more comfortable, but they’d stop feeling fresh soon. 
There was a tray of her untouched breakfast next to the soiled tissues, and 
a random magazine her mother had bought for her the night before.  
Despite an apparent attack on the Trimond HQ, her mother had 
succeeded at reaching Walter. The good news was that Walter had already 
decided on his own to help Kristella, the bad news - they hadn’t figured 
out how. 
Supposedly Walter knew what to do, but getting her out of hospital 
would take another day, maybe. 
Spewing blood had become normal after a while; just like any other 
fluids leaving the body. Perversely, Kristella had started feeling bad for the 
new patient they had brought in; a young woman who was one of the 
attackers, or actually she had been playing along in a police plot- 
Cough, cough. 
It just wouldn’t stop. 
Well, in a few days it probably would. 
The woman in the bed opposite to Kristella’s sat upright. 
“Should I call for a nurse?” she asked Kristella. 
No, Kristella wanted to say, but her voice broke into more coughs 
buried inside another tissue, she shook her head while the tissue soaked 
up her blood. 
Where was all the blood coming from? She remembered her uncle who 
had suffered from a similar cough and had always carried a bag of tissues, 
some of them red. For him, it had already been a routine. Swallow some 
food, cough up blood. Watch some TV, cough up more blood. He had 
thrown curses at anyone suggesting him to visit a doctor. “Curse you to 
hell,” he had cried out. A week later, that’s where he had ended up in. 
One week, huh? 

 
340 
The woman stood up from her bed, showing her Minnie Mouse t -shirt 
and gray trousers, and approached Kristella. 
“My name’s Marla,” she said, offering her hand. 
Kristella refused and shook her head, showing her dirty hands; 
although the shaking was probably from the usual coughs. “Kristella,” she 
managed to croak. 
“What happened to you?” Marla asked, bewildered and full of 
empathy. 
She doesn’t know me? 
“Trimond company,” Kristella said, her throat itching madly. 
“Spokesperson, secretary.” She wheezed and added: “Lab rat.”  
“Oh,” Marla said. “Is it our fault that you’re like this? Because we 
damaged the cables?” 
Kristella shook her head with closed eyes and swallowed. “I was one of 
the first. Like Jeremy.” 
Marla didn’t show whether she knew who Jeremy was; she simply 
asked: “Can I help you in any way? Do you need water?” 
The water jug behind the tissues was indeed empty. 
“Please,” Kristella whispered. 
Marla swiftly removed the jug, filled it up at the sink next to the 
entrance door, returned and put some of the water in a fresh glass after 
getting rid of the other glass with dried bloodstains on it. 
“Thanks.” Kristella took a sip with her chapped lips. “Why are you 
here?” 
Marla sat down on a nearby chair. “I’m fine really. They’re just keeping 
me in place along with Bellward and Leonard. I think Bellward has some 
bruises they’re eager to cure. But I only...” Marla took a long look at 
Kristella. “I’m fine.” 
She doesn’t look fine. 
“What’s up?” Kristella asked, clearing her throat. The cool water had 
calmed the itching a little. 
“I’m just glad it’s all over,” Marla explained, smiling while looking at 
the floor. “And I get to see my family again.” 
I wish it were all over. 
“Your family?” 
Marla nodded and teared up. “They’re all I have. I was so scared that 
I’d never see them again. So many times I felt like I would mess everything 
up and...” 
Silence. 
 
341 
“And then I meet you and I’m scared for you too,” Marla added after a 
while. “I think I remember you now, you know? I may have seen you on 
the news. I caught a glimpse of a press conference while we were resting at 
a gas station. You just stood there and took all the heat. And you say the 
company you work for did this to you?” 
Well... Yeah, I guess. 
Kristella shook her head. “Accident,” she said, coughing three times 
into a tissue. The lump in her throat made her gag and she leaned to the 
left side of her bed. There was a bucket filled with vile liquids. Kristella 
coughed once more and then she threw up blood and water. 
Walter never wanted it to be like this. He simply made a mistake. 
Once Kristella was lying back in her cushion, she realized Marla had 
lightly squeezed her right hand. 
“I’m going to call for a doctor,” she insisted. 
At that moment her mother, a nurse and a policeman walked in. 
“Oh, oh, oh, my dear,” Kristella’s mother cried, hurried to her daughter 
and stroked her head. 
Don’t touch me, mom. I’ve got sweat everywhere. 
Kristella moaned. 
“We’re here to get you out,” her mother said. “All is cleared up, you’re 
ready to be brought to Walter’s place, so he can finally fix you.” 
Marla stood and said: “Welcome back, ma’am.” 
Kristella’s mother thanked her for tending to Kristella. 
“How...” Kristella tried to ask, but she only felt a tingle in her throat. 
The nurse explained: “We’re preparing the helicopter right now, they’ll 
land on top of the Trimond HQ.” She undid the brakes on Kristella ’s bed 
and started turning her. 
Marla waved goodbye as they moved Kristella out of the room.  
Farewell, Marla. 
 
342 
 
 
 
“What on Earth is going on here?” Walter shouted. He had just entered the 
building floor and seen all the equipment and Samir among it. 
Samir bowed. “Greetings! Oh, I will be gone in just a minute,” he said.  
Xave followed Walter out of the staircase and jumped between the two 
scientists. 
“He’s here because I told him so,” Xave defended Samir. 
“What was he doing here? It stinks like...” 
Walter’s eyes grew wide. Like rotten rats. For a second he fell back into 
darkness; the closed up room, the foul but familiar stench, the unsolved 
problem lingering heavy on his shoulders. 
“I saved Rick’s son,” Samir explained with a proud, wide smile. 
“You what?” Walter asked, his voice breaking. 
Xave grinned. “His wireless stuff was near a breakthrough, so I thought 
he could save Bernand and test out the new technology at the same time.” 
Walter looked around. There were computers, monitors, cables - all 
stuff he had never seen before. There was a sort of travelling booth similar 
to his, but different in little details. And the iron box... 
The iron box... 
It couldn’t be. “Xave?” 
“Yes?” 
“What’s that doing here?” Walter asked furiously, pointing at the silver 
chest as if it were possessed. “How did you get ahold of this?” he asked 
Samir. 
“Oh,” Xave said. “I gave him allowance to use them, they were just 
lying around anyway.” 
Samir nodded with a wink. “Don’t worry, I can keep secrets.” 
All chains of self-restraint broke apart. Walter shot forward and pressed 
Samir down on one of the tables, crashing into a keyboard and a monitor. 
“What did you do?” 

 
343 
In shock, Samir blurted out random words in his native tongue; then he 
swallowed and said: “I told Xave I needed molecules to restore bodies, 
that’s how wireless travelling works. He said there were dead teenagers. I 
said, that would do.” 
Walter glared at Xave. “This is not science. This is... foul. You two spit in 
the face of science. What you are practising is dark voodoo.” 
Xave laughed. “Dark voodoo? There’s no such thing. Besides,” the 
salesman drew closer to Walter, “you started it.” 
Just as Walter tried to strike Xave in the face, Samir grabbed him from 
behind. 
“Calm down,” Samir said. 
Calm down! Calm down and all will be fine! 
 Walter breathed loudly. 
“What’s this fighting spirit within you, Walter?” Xave asked playfully. 
“That’s a side I haven’t seen yet, how exciting!” 
Xave’s earlier laughter echoed in Walter’s mind from all sides. Walter 
closed his eyes and concentrated. His surroundings were abuzz with 
distractions, but he needed to focus on saving Kristella and deal with the 
rest later. 
Besides, it had been done. There was no turning back now. And as Xave 
had already mentioned, Walter was a part of it no matter how he looked at 
it. 
After a minute, Walter nodded slowly. “I’m fine.” He took three steps 
away from them both. “I need to prepare for Kristella’s arrival.” 
“I will help,” Samir offered. 
Walter’s mind bended grotesquely. Sure, why not? “Alright,” he said, 
while his entire being objected. “Let’s all help Kristella.” 
Then I will kill someone. After dinner. 
Samir and Walter stacked several racks of computers and monitors, 
connected everything to an altered booth that Walter had used on Jeremy 
back then. 
When everything lighted up expectantly, Walter announced: “Almost 
ready.” 
 
Only ten minutes later, the helicopter landed on top of the Trimond HQ 
building. Two male nurses carried Kristella tied to a hospital bed out of the 
loud vehicle, pulled out the wheels and rolled Kristella to Xave and 
Walter, who were standing at the elevator entrance on the roof.  
“How is she?” Walter yelled on top of the noise, wind slashing against 
his face. 
 
344 
“She threw up and was out cold for the rest of the flight,” one of the 
male nurses shouted back, his hair dancing. “Whatever you’re trying to do, 
you better do it quick.” 
They brought her into the elevator - which unlocked with Xave’s key - 
and Xave and Walter moved her to the construction floor, leaving the 
nurses on the roof. 
Samir awaited them. “There she is. Is she alright?” 
“Not really,” Walter grumbled, hastily shoving the bed towards his 
contraption. 
The saved data is incomplete. 
Walter shook his head. “It’s her only chance.” 
She will die. 
“She’s dead anyway,” Walter argued with himself. 
If she doesn’t die, she will suffer worse. 
“I have to try.” 
Xave snipped his fingers. “Who are you talking to, Walter?” 
“I’m hesitating,” Walter said, while still pushing buttons. 
“You’re clearly not,” Xave noticed. 
“A part of me is,” Walter said. “Move her on top of the plate.” 
Walter looked at Kristella. Her eyes were closed and dried tears 
shimmered in their corners. Her hair was unkempt; strains of it were 
drawing soft lines in the sweat down her cheeks. Her mouth was slightly 
open and covered in hardened blood. It was as if he had seen her for the 
last time. 
How much will she remember? Will she still know me? 
He distanced himself from his actions completely now, going full auto-
pilot and looking away. He was about to kill the Kristella he had known 
for the past four years. Why did it seem to hurt? 
In his own darkness he shut off all noise; Xave’s voice, asking him 
question; his own voice, affirming with one-word sentences; the joyful 
ramblings of Samir, who was shifting Kristella’s body into a perfect 
position; the machines, in the hands of which Kristella’s life lay; the 
clicking of his own hands, resembling the noise of insects feeding on their 
prey. 
Kristella. 
I’m sorry. 
The sequence started and ended with the usual lightshow and 
soundscape. 
Walter returned to control his mind and closely watched her. 
“You think she made it?” Xave asked casually. 
 
345 
“Sure, sure,” Samir nodded repeatedly. “Look!” 
Indeed, Kristella’s body moved on its own, something Walter wasn’t 
sure he’d ever witness again. She sat upright and rubbed her head.  
“What the fuck, guys,” she moaned. “What time is it?” 
“It’s, uh,” Xave said, checking his watch. “Barely eight in the evening.” 
“Wow, I feel like it’s morning and I’ve slept two hours,” she said, 
blinking. “This place looks different. Where did you move the sofa to?”  
“The sofa?” Xave asked. “Oh, you mean the one in the factory hall?”  
“Which other hall is there with a sofa I can sleep on?” 
Who’s going to tell her? 
“Hi, Kristella,” Walter managed to say. 
Kristella gave him a weird look. “Hi!” She stood up. “Who’s this?” she 
asked, pointing at Samir. 
“My assistant,” Walter explained. “Samir, this is Kristella, Kristella - 
Samir.” 
“My pleasure,” Samir said, kissing Kristella’s hand. 
“Charmed,” Kristella said. “Sor-,” she yawned, “-ry.” 
“Kristella,” Walter began. “A lot has happened. I’m not sure how to tell 
you.” 
“We restored your body and you lost four years of your memory,” 
Xave explained, crossing his arms. “What do you say?” 
“Huh? Wait a minute, why am I wearing hospital stuff?” Kristella 
noticed. “What is that? Is that blood?” 
“You coughed up a lot of it,” Walter told her, piercing Xave with a 
stare. He shrugged. 
“You’re fine now!” Samir rejoiced. “You aren’t even throwing up like 
the others.” 
“Four years, huh?” Kristella mumbled. “Was I happy?” 
“Happy?” Walter asked. 
“You know, job, life, love. How’s my mum?” 
“Well,” Xave intervened. “You and Walter have slept with each other.” 
“No way!” Kristella said, laughing. “Nuh-uh. You’re kidding.” 
“He is,” Walter grumbled. “You broke up with your boyfriend and for 
some reason you came to me and made me clean up my room. You helped 
me, too, and in the end we were so tired we just fell asleep.” 
“Boyfriend!? Wait, hold on,” Kristella took a deep breath. “You know 
what, I’ll just call my mum. That’ll bring me back up to speed.” 
“You,” Walter hesitated. “You’re not angry?” 
 
346 
“Because I lost four years? Nah, it comes with the job, right? It’s like I 
was super drunk and now I’m hearing all the stories I was involved in.” 
She took a few steps in a direction and turned around again. “Where ’s the 
coffee machine? Where’s everything else?” 
“Don’t worry, Calem will help you get back on your feet,” Xave said. 
“She’s your secretary.” 
“My secretary?” Kristella giggled. “I guess it will be the other way 
around now for a while, haha.” 
“You’re eerily cheery about this, Kristella,” Walter said with a worried 
tone. 
“She is just fine,” Samir assured, looking at a screen with results of the 
whole process. 
“I am just fine,” Kristella repeated, mocking Samir’s tone and crossing 
her eyes. 
She’s fine. 
Walter’s eyes teared up. “I’ll see you all tomorrow,” he announced with 
a broken voice and took the elevator up to his suite. 
 
347 
 
 
 
“Welcome home,” Rick said, while opening the door to their house. 
His son walked inside, examining the interior. “I like it a lot,” he 
assessed. 
Bernand hadn’t talked much on the way after finally waking up; but 
from what he had said, he had seemed to have problems recalling past 
memories, despite the fact that Rick - or rather Samir - had used a fresh 
save point. 
For now, Rick was content. Not happy; something was definitely off, 
but there he was: his son in flesh and blood. 
“Is this really ours?” Bernand asked, his eyes still wandering across the 
walls and decorations. 
Rick closed the door behind them and took off his jacket and shoes. 
“You bet.” 
“Where’s mother?” 
“Your mum will be here soon, she’s on a train right now,” Rick said, 
while reaching for Bernand’s shoes. 
“I can do that myself,” Bernand said. 
“Alright, do it quickly, so I can show you your room,” Rick said, 
smiling. 
Maybe that will jump-start his mind. Roanne shouldn’t see him like this. 
The boy carefully undid his shoelaces, slipped out and arranged the 
shoes neatly next to the door. 
“Follow me,” Rick said. 
They walked up the stairs; Rick turned around every other step to see if 
Bernand was still following and to check whether he was still there. 
When they reached Bernand’s room, Rick slowly pushed the door 
aside. “May I present: your kingdom.” 

 
348 
There was a carpet on the ground showing streets, various shops, 
railroad tracks and construction sites. Near the wall on the ground there 
was an actual miniature gas station with a dozen Matchbox cars parked 
next to it. A cupboard rested in a corner and shouldered an old TV. The 
bed was covered in Ninja Turtles sheets and on top was a huge carton box 
full of Lego pieces. 
“This is weird,” Bernand said. 
Rick raised his eyebrows. “What? What is weird?” 
His son shrugged. “I like it anyway,” he said. 
Anyway? 
“Thank you,” Bernand added, while going in and sitting down on the 
bed. 
Why would he sit down on his bed? 
For a moment Rick hesitated, then he sat next to Bernand and asked: 
“Are you hungry?” 
“Not really.” 
“How do you feel?” 
Bernand shrugged. 
“Do you remember any of this?” Rick continued unabated. 
It took Bernand a few seconds to think, before he replied: “No.”  
“Not even a little? Got a déjà-vu feeling maybe?” 
“No.” 
“Do you know what a déjà-vu is?” Rick chuckled. 
“Yes.” 
That’s something, I guess. 
Rick breathed deeply. “Do you know what happened to you?” 
“What do you mean?” Bernand asked in return, his eyes glowing.  
“Your father screwed up,” Rick confessed. 
“How so?” 
It took a bit of strength to admit it: “I made you disappear. I was 
responsible for the technology we used to try and save you.”  
“Save me?” 
Rick nodded. “It’s the new thing, we can save people and restore them 
later on.” 
“Like clones?” Bernand made a face full of awe. 
“No, we’re not cloning people,” Rick said. 
Well, Samir might. 
He took a close look at Bernand, who seemed quite calm. 
“You’re not mad at me?” Rick asked. 
“No? Why would I be mad?” 
 
349 
“I almost ki-” He looked to the side. “You almost didn’t make it back.” 
“It’s no big deal, father.” 
Rick playfully punched Bernand’s shoulder. “Call me dad, will you?” 
“I will, in time.” Bernand looked straight ahead. 
What was that supposed to mean? ... Nevermind. 
“You hungry now?” Rick asked, discarding the creeping despair. 
Bernand shrugged. “I should probably eat before I go back.” 
“Alright, I’ll order some pizza, if the restaurant’s still open at this time,” 
Rick decided. 
Wait, what? 
As Rick was about to stand up, he shot a puzzled look at his son. “Go 
back where, son?” 
“The real world,” Bernand replied, his voice having no undertone of 
jest. 
“The real- oh, you mean school,” Rick said, fake laughing. “Who told 
you these phrases?” 
“I’m not ten anymore, father.” 
Rick squinted. “How old are you?” 
Bernand’s shoulders jumped up and down. “I don’t know.” 
“Stop kidding around, boy,” Rick scolded him. “You’re fourteen years 
old. Now you know. I’m ordering, be right back.” 
“Be right back,” his son repeated. 
“Exactly,” Rick said, feeling queasy. 
Rick went downstairs and grabbed the receiver of the phone standing 
in the entrance hall. 
I can’t let my wife see him like this. I just can’t. 
He dialled a number by turning the wheel digit by digit. 
Pick up. PICK UP. 
“Yes,” a male voice responded. 
“Xave, did I wake you?” Rick asked. 
“No, I don’t sleep. I’ve got things to do before I die.” 
“I’ve got a problem,” Rick said with a low voice. “My son’s lost his 
memory. He seems like a whole different person.” 
“You have your son back,” Xave responded calmly. “That’s what you 
wanted right?” 
“As I said, it’s not him.” 
“You want a different son? Try out a few, see if you prefer another?” 
Xave genuinely asked. 
“No, I have my son, but only in appearance,” Rick tried to explain. 
 
350 
“Is he lacking soul? I’d blame that on the parents,” Xave said, 
chuckling. 
Rick turned around to see if his son was standing nearby, then he spit 
into the phone: “Shut the fuck up now and listen to me, Xave.” 
“Woah, big words, careful with those.” 
“My wife’s going to be here soon, she can’t see him like that,” Rick said 
through his teeth. “You get back to Samir and ask him if there’s anything 
he can do. Or if there’s anything I can do.” 
“Have you tried slapping him?” Xave asked. 
“No!” 
“Did you think that maybe your son is just kidding around? What is he 
saying?” 
Rick grasped his forehead. “He doesn’t even remember his own age. He 
calls me ‘father’, nobody does that!” 
“Oh, I had to say ‘father’ to my precious parent or he would kick the 
Schillings out of me,” Xave recalled. “Just to teach me about respect. And 
money. And sometimes even I don’t remember my age.” 
“What do you suggest, Xave? Please, just be rational for once, I 
desperately need your help,” Rick pleaded. 
“We got you your son back, he’s a human being, just like you,” Xave 
said. “I’m sure things will turn out positive. There’s nothing else we can 
do, anyway.” 
Rick nodded. “Maybe you’re right. It’s just... he doesn’t even know 
me.” 
“He’ll remember, I guess he’s just in shock,” Xave comforted Rick. “I’ve 
got to go. Talk to you later. Remember: stay calm.” 
“Alright,” Rick said, giving up. 
He put down the receiver and turned around. 
Bernand was standing right beside him. “Can we go back together?”  
Rick jumped. “Don’t sneak up on me like that.” 
“Let’s go back together,” Bernand said with a smile that didn’t quite 
reach his eyes. 
“Back to where?” Rick said, disturbed. “To your room?” 
“Back inside,” Bernand cried out. 
Rick slapped his son on his right cheek. “Stop it,” Rick snapped. It 
hadn’t been a command approved by his brain. 
Bernand rubbed his burning red face and slowly walked back upstairs. 
“Yes. Father.” 
 
351 
 
 
 
At 5 a.m. sharp, Walter’s phone rang. The scientist, who had just about 
been falling asleep, panicked for a second, then moaned in disagreement.  
The phone, however, would not give up, so Walter surrendered, 
crawled out of bed and dragged himself to the table near one of the 
windows. 
“Hello?” 
“Good morning, son,” his father spoke to him. 
“Papa,” Walter said in surprise. 
His father laughed. “Did I wake you up?” 
Walter fished for his glasses on the bed stand, while stretching the curly 
cable of the receiver. “I’m not usually up at this particular time, if you 
wanted to know that. How are you two doing?” 
“We’re fine, just left L.A.,” his father said. “At the airport right now.” 
Awkward silence. 
“Walter,” his father said. “We’re seeing some strange things on TV 
about instant travelling.” 
Walter nodded, realizing he couldn’t be seen. “We’re having technical 
issues.” 
“People are scoffing all around us, shaking their heads,” his father said, 
muffled. “Can you handle the situation or do you need more financial 
support?” 
“Xave is making the rounds, talking to all important people and 
making sure everyone understands that it wasn’t exactly our fault that 
terrorists have attacked our system,” Walter elaborated. 
There was a distorted shuffling noise on the other end. 
“Walter?” his mother asked in her cheery voice. “Are you there?” 
“Hello, mother, it’s nice to hear from you both,” Walter said, actually 
smiling. He sat down on his chair. “When will I see you again?” 

 
352 
“Ah,” his mother said. “We’ll take a quick tour through North America, 
there are some places we haven’t really seen yet and it’s now the best 
season to do so. Are you okay? I don’t like what the news show about my 
son’s work.” 
“We’re fine,” Walter reassured her. “I’m in good hands. We fell into a 
hole, but we’ll fight our way out.” 
“Are you sure? We should just cancel and fly back,” his mother said. 
“You were under attack too, what an awful thing.” 
“We’re fine, really,” Walter repeated. “Xave told me we’ll move soon. 
Apparently he had already prepared another option, just in case.” 
She sighed. “Alright, but please let us know immediately if we should 
return.” 
“How can I reach you?” 
“Your father has just bought one of those new satellite phones,” she 
said. 
“Those are super expensive,” Walter pointed out. 
“You can reach us easily now,” she said, ignoring Walter’s observation. 
“Do you have something to write?” 
Walter picked up a pencil and a piece of paper. “Yes.” 
He was given a rather long string of numbers, which he noted down.  
His parents hung up soon afterwards, apologizing and explaining that 
they had to catch a flight. 
Connecting London with underwater cables had already been quite a 
challenge; Walter was afraid the ongoing Trimond image problems would 
put a damper on trying to branch out the instant travelling network to 
America. 
He shook his head. This wasn’t something he should worry about. Xave 
would handle it somehow. 
And if not? What if he can’t turn this ship around? 
Walter shivered, realizing he’d been sitting there in only his underwear. 
Maybe he’d just disappear, hide in a basement and continue 
experimenting on new inventions, free from any expectations, without 
having to take care of people’s lives. 
Just work on something simple, something less thrilling and utterly boring, 
and die without anyone noticing. 
Walter stretched and went back to bed, whose sheets had already 
cooled down. 
As he fell asleep, a part of him still wished Xave would succeed.  
 
353 
 
 
 
“Good morning,” said the old man, when he and his wheeled walker 
entered the close vicinity of Leonard. 
“Good morning,” Leonard greeted back, sitting on a bench in the 
hospital garden area and enjoying the sun’s warmth on his face. 
It took the old man almost five awkward minutes to shuffle by. 
“It’s still a good morning,” the man jested with a shaky voice. 
“Indeed, it is,” Leonard agreed. 
Footsteps approached from the left. “There he is,” Reklur said. 
“Everyone’s favourite retired thief.” 
Leonard remained seated and raised an eyebrow. “Inspector Reklur. I ’d 
be lying if I said the pleasure’s all mine.” 
Reklur sat down next to Leonard; there wasn’t exactly enough space, so 
he kind of shoved Leonard to the side. 
“You’ve already had enough pleasure, I’m sure,” Reklur responded. 
“People picked you up from the ditch and brought you along on a journey 
with a beautiful girl at your side.” 
Leonard slid a bit away from Reklur. “Beautiful girl? I’m not sure who 
you’re referring to.” 
“Marla, you fool,” Reklur scolded. 
She’s not... 
Leonard had enjoyed Marla’s natural look, although beautiful was a 
strange word to describe her. 
“What? She’s not doing it for you?” Reklur asked with a staged 
bewilderment. 
Leonard nodded. “I do like her. But I’m too old for her anyhow.” 
“Humbug,” Reklur said, poking Leonard in the arm. “But anyway, 
she’s dead. Along with the rest of her family.” 
“What?” Leonard was too shocked to even register the words 
completely. “How? When?” 
Reklur shrugged. “They died off-screen.” 

 
354 
“What is that supposed to mean?” 
Reklur looked Leonard hard in his eyes. “They died when you weren ’t 
looking.” 
Then Reklur leaned back and laughed wholeheartedly. “I’m just 
kidding. I’ve reunited her with her family. They’ve done what I asked of 
them; we seized a dangerous group of people because of them, now they 
can all go home.” 
Leonard reached for his heart. “Don’t joke about things like that.” 
The inspector simply grinned. “Anyway, as for you, my old thug,” he 
said and slapped Leonard on his knee. “You’re going to pay for all the 
stuff you’ve done.” 
“I’ve done nothing,” Leonard stated. 
“Well,” Reklur said, looking around. “Yeah, I know. Here, take this.” 
He reached for a little black leather wallet and handed it to Leonard.  
“What’s that?” Leonard asked as he unfolded it. There was money 
inside. Quite a bit. Usually when Leonard’s hand had gotten into contact 
with the colourful paper he had felt a bit of guilt. “What am I to do with 
it?” 
“Up to you,” Reklur said, smiling, stood up and walked after the slow 
old man to the right. “Halt, you’re too fast,” he yelled in the distance. 
When Reklur was out of sight, Leonard took Reklur’s appointment 
book out from under his coat and opened it. 
“Let’s see,” he mumbled to himself. 
There was a note written down right at the first page: “Hey Leonard, 
you sneaky ninja, you! This is a little awkward, isn’t it? Anyway! Here are 
all the notes about this whole operation. You’ll soon know everything 
about my world. Enjoy!” 
Leonard kept reading until sunset. 
 
355 
 
 
 
On a wide oil mining field, a motorcade, trailed by six police cars, drove 
up to one eagerly pumping oil extractor. The cars stopped, and Reklur got 
out of the motorcade, wearing shades. 
“How cute,” he commented. “Oil business.” 
Two months earlier, it had taken him several days to question the 
people who had bombed and infiltrated the INSTANT headquarters. Many 
of them would not talk and rather be sentenced to a lifetime of 
imprisonment. 
One in particular had been grazed by bomb fragments and turned out 
to be - more or less - talkative while being hooked to all sorts of cables in a 
hospital bed, his face a distant reminder of a former human tool for 
displaying emotions. 
After putting that person’s clues together with a dozen of additional 
hints, Reklur had been able to track down several meeting points all over 
Europe and successfully raid those with the assistance of local police. In 
the end, they had found the group responsible for bombing the Trimond 
HQ, yet failed to discover who had shot at Walter and Kristella years ago, 
attributing it to a single person acting on their own. Though, more 
importantly, they arrested one influential person, who helped pinpoint the 
location of the man behind all the weapons of destruction; the last piece of 
Reklur’s puzzle. 
He straightened his collar and moved towards the entrance door in a 
small building next to a turning and shifting head of an extracting 
machine. 
Reklur coughed into his fist, and knocked on the door twice with the 
other hand. 
“Room service,” he yelled. 
He waited a minute, then gestured the police squad that had built up 
behind him. They stormed the door and marched inside. 

 
356 
With pistols drawn, Reklur and his uniformed men went down a long 
and narrow set of stairs. It went from bright to almost pitch black, and 
Reklur’s squad turned on three flashlights. There was a shimmer of light 
behind another door with a logo on it. 
Reklur grinned, noticing the circle with the dent and the arrow facing 
the center. He didn’t have any patience left, so he just ordered his men: 
“Open it.” 
They tore the door down and went inside. 
Einstein looked up from a ball of cables on a long desk, spanning the 
entire room he was in. There were two more open doors, and the rooms 
behind them were filled with electronic parts of all sizes, including a series 
of instant travelling booths in various states of disarray. 
“Reklur,” Einstein said, calm and with a smile, like a grandfather seeing 
his grandson. 
Reklur’s group surrounded Einstein and waited for commands. 
“Let me do the honors, gentlemen,” Reklur said, squeezing through 
two of the policemen, producing a set of handcuffs. 
“That won’t be necessary, it was difficult enough to find me,” Einstein 
insisted, bowing deeply, almost like a losing chess king figure. 
“I had suspected you for years,” Reklur said, spinning the cuffs around 
his finger. “It had your signature style written all over it.” 
“You flatter me too much,” Einstein laughed, his tired Adam’s apple 
wiggling up and down. 
“Why didn’t you work with us instead?” Reklur asked, with a hint of 
sadness. 
“I worked with nobody,” Einstein explained with a raspy voice, 
scratching the gray stubble on his cheek. “Some people paid me for what I 
love to do. Their ulterior motive was none of my business.” 
“You sure loved them, what with their emblem on your door,” Reklur 
countered. 
“It’s true that they thought I was part of their equipment, their pocket 
scientist,” Einstein remarked, catching air. “I let them move me around, 
under the condition that they would provide me with parts I needed for 
my own experiments.” 
“You’re saying you trusted them, and in turn, they took control of 
you?” Reklur summarized. “I don’t buy it, you’re a mad scientist, you saw 
an opportunity to get ahold of illegal materials to play around with.”  
“Illegal materials? Mad scientist?” Einstein guffawed. “My word, 
whatever do you think I have been working on?” 
 
357 
“Wireless teleportation, perhaps? More guns that shoot holes into 
things?” Reklur suggested. “You scientists are all the same.” 
Einstein raised an eyebrow. “My, my,” he said, slowly shaking his 
head. “Your generalizations still don’t disappoint. Say, does your 
appointment book still talk to you?” 
Reklur held up both his arms. “Don’t listen to this old man, take him 
outside.” He closed in on Einstein and put an arm around him. “We’ve got 
a special surprise for our special guest.” 
They went upstairs and as soon as Einstein spotted the motorcade, he 
said: “Reklur, old friend, do me one favor.” 
“Yes?” Reklur answered, opening the motorcade’s door and holding it 
open. 
Einstein crawled inside and took a seat. He leaned out and told Reklur: 
“Now that you found me, please, seek help. Get your head examined.”  
The inspector laughed in a forced manner, closed the door and looked 
at the policemen around him. He couldn’t figure out whether they all 
agreed. 
 
358 
 
 
Six Years Later 
 
Beaming with Delight 
 
An exclusive interview with Walter Trimond, by Editor-in-chief 
Madeleine Long. 
 
Even though it had been one of my first jobs, I clearly remember the 
day I entered the noble Trimond family house twelve years ago. The 
building I’m stepping into now is far from humble; the skyscraper - 
labelled TRIMOND with ominous white letters at the top - stands tall on 
the edge of Vowkinn, reflecting the sun on all sides like a polished 
monolith. 
The receptionist welcomes me and, after I tell her who I am and that 
I’m being expected, I’m offered a choice between an elevator, an INSTANT 
booth or the old-fashioned staircase to reach the top. 
I, of course, take the INSTANT. If it took five minutes to the top with an 
elevator, that’d be almost as long as teleporting from New York to Paris, as 
the notorious billboard adverts inform us. 
After arriving instantly at the top, I am joined by Walter and we sit 
down in a lounge. The scientist hasn’t aged a lot since meeting him last, 
although I can discern a few lines of wisdom around his eyes. 
 
Madeleine Long: It’s a pleasure to meet you again. 
Walter Trimond: I’m delighted myself; it seems we met just yesterday, 
doesn’t it? 
Madeleine: Absolutely. But I feel old all of a sudden. 
Walter: Probably because Nirvana is slowly being categorized as oldie.  
Madeleine: (laughs) A lot has happened since yesterday. In fact, you’re 
celebrating your ten year anniversary. 

 
359 
Walter: Yes, we have ongoing discounts for all of our services and are 
preparing for an announcement. It will be revealed tonight. (Editor’s note: 
They announced wireless travel - see front page, but he wouldn’t tell me just yet, 
despite the fact that this interview would go live after the event.) 
Madeleine: Care to spoil it for my readers? 
Walter: I can’t, Xave [Stern] is probably watching me right now. He has 
very strict rules, but that’s why everything he does succeeds. 
Madeleine: Is it the long rumoured wireless travelling? 
Walter: (laughs) I really shouldn’t say. 
Madeleine: There have been reports in relation to wireless travelling 
that the Trimond company is building cemeteries. 
Walter: We’re always looking at offering more services. 
Madeleine: Instant funerals? 
Walter: That’s a great idea, I’ll talk to Xave about that. 
Madeleine: Hypothetically speaking, if we were able to travel 
wirelessly, when would you expect us to travel to the moon? 
Walter: As you probably know, our cables are an obstacle to a handful 
of people, so our main focus would be on getting rid of them. 
Madeleine: So we’re not beaming to the moon? 
Walter: (laughs) You’re still using that word? But yes, we’ve conducted 
lots of research, the results of which shall be revealed in time. 
Madeleine: You’ll put NASA out of their jobs. 
Walter: We’re not astronauts; if it ever came to space travelling, we’d 
need their - and every other space agency’s - help to build interstellar 
INSTANT stations. 
Madeleine: Bringing it back down to Earth again, according to a poll on 
our website, you are putting hundreds of people out of work right now. 
Your invention has caused ripple effects that are felt in all kinds of 
transportation industries. 
Walter: Xave and his sales team regularly board planes, call taxis, and 
sometimes even ride trains on their business trips. I can tell you from 
Xave’s observations that none of these businesses are going anywhere. You 
can use the INSTANT to travel from city to city, but we’re just now 
pushing forward with regional connections, and, as you may have heard, 
personal booths for home use were presented at last year’s CES. I imagine 
the latter will have the biggest impact, but trains didn’t go extinct because 
of cars or planes. There’s room for everyone. There’s even a group of 
people who claim INSTANT travelling has negative effects on your body; 
as long as people like that exist, everything else will. 
Madeleine: You believe in co-existence? 
 
360 
Walter: Absolutely, and I can confirm those are also Xave’s intentions. 
Madeleine: Does instant travelling have a negative effect on our bodies? 
Walter: No, we’ve proven throughout the years that there are no side 
effects whatsoever, even doctors approve. 
Madeleine: I heard some wild stories; people going to doctors and 
joining the Jeremy Instant Travelling Care because their limbs felt like 
coming off after commuting to work using the INSTANT every day. They 
claim that mass teleportation equals mass suicide. 
Walter: Those are negative voices, of course they stand out due to their 
loudness, but I promise you, the positive effects instant travelling has on 
people’s lives vastly outweigh any psychosomatic pain. 
Madeleine: You’re calling them crazy? 
Walter: On the contrary, but just because my shoulder feels stiff, I don’t 
tell everyone that sleeping in a bed is making me sick. There are usually 
other reasons - an open window, stress, or sore muscles. 
Madeleine: It’s definitely not due to your product, then. 
Walter: Millions use it every day; if we received a million complaints, I 
would be concerned. 
Madeleine: Do you use it yourself? 
Walter: Yes, I do. 
Madeleine: Are you sure? Sources claim that you and Mr. Stern have 
never been witnessed travelling instantly. How are you getting around on 
business trips if not by your own invention? 
Walter: I usually don’t comment on rumours, especially from 
anonymous sources, but suffice to say, I don’t do business trips. I’m a 
scientist through and through; my home is my castle. Xave, as I said 
earlier, also travels by other means of transportation, not only to check out 
what the competition is doing, but to be a fair sport. He doesn’t want 
anyone to go out of business. He thinks it brightens his public image when 
he is seen travelling using different ways. Besides, he has met a lot of 
business partners that way. 
Madeleine: That is something romantic that is lost on instant travelling, 
I believe. If you remove the journey, you can’t sit down and drink a cup of 
coffee with a stranger for a few hours. 
Walter: Well, despite mass transportation, our lines are still getting 
longer. I’d say people chat there while waiting to travel. 
Madeleine: Any future plans to circumvent that? Or are chatting people 
good for business? 
Walter: Our announcement may help out immensely, we’ll see. We’re 
constantly seeking ways to improve. More cables aren’t always the answer. 
 
361 
Madeleine: Let’s tackle some of the philosophical ramifications. Popular 
physicist John Clauser recently said that he wouldn’t step into your 
machine, the question about whether you are still the original person after 
being teleported scares him. What’s your take on that? 
Walter: I like that man a lot, but I honestly believe he’s just jealous. Of 
course, the person on the other side is you. You wouldn’t be able to know 
otherwise. 
Madeleine: That is a dangerous thing to say. You’re saying, you don’t 
remember dying and not waking up, and thus we conclude that the person 
on the other side is the original, when in fact something must have 
happened. 
Walter: All I’m saying is - are you using instant travelling? 
Madeleine: Sure, all the time. I beamed up here. 
Walter: You don’t care, do you? It’s fast, painless, convenient. 
Madeleine: People care what happens to their bodies. 
Walter: We can keep discussing the philosophy behind travelling for 
eternity. My point is: You want to go from A to B as fast as possible, we 
provide the solution, even with health benefits. I have nothing more to say 
on that topic. 
Madeleine: Very well. As of two years ago, your system reaches far into 
the world outside of Europe. What has taken so long? 
Walter: Back when we connected the United Kingdom about seven 
years ago, we faced the difficulties of putting cables underwater. We ’ve 
learned a lot from it and began coating our cables with Kevlar, as well  as a 
polyethylene and steel reinforcement, to connect to the rest of the world. 
Cost was a big factor in our delay, we paid several hundred millions of US 
dollars. Figuring out a deal with Kevlar and where best to put the cables 
proved quite a challenge to us, but as you said, now we’re worldwide. It 
feels good. 
Madeleine: Are you going to end world hunger? 
Walter: That is the hot topic in our meetings right now. We’ve already 
improved humanity’s health with the addition of medical tools based on 
our instant travelling technology, as well as our premium saving service, 
but world hunger is a different, political matter. 
Madeleine: I heard some mumblings about a deal with Egypt for a 
specialized traffic line down to South Africa. 
 
362 
Walter: There was in fact a deal on the table, Xave can probably tell you 
more details about that. We would’ve required 3.3 billion in US dollars to 
build a centralized hub in the Qattara Depression. There was a company 
that suggested 200 hydrogen bombs to construct the necessary canal for 
less than half that price. The government declined, naturally. 
Madeleine: So, what will you do to feed everyone? 
Walter: In theory, we can create anything we want at remote places, as 
long as there are all the necessary materials available. The problem is 
getting everything there first. It still requires an incredible amount of 
effort. Even with wireless, you’d still have to have something stored to 
construct food. We would like to make a difference, but we’re not there 
yet. 
Madeleine: Won’t people just flock to countries where there is enough 
food? 
Walter: There are limits as to how many people can enter other 
countries. In some, people have to be checked before they can exit the 
INSTANT area, sometimes they get held up for several days. We’ve hit a 
handful of political roadblocks, as you can probably imagine; Cuba was 
especially interesting. 
Madeleine: How come? 
Walter: Because of the different currencies and the way they treat 
foreigners. There’s an interesting story, actually. Xave is easily sunburnt 
and our meetings in Cuba took place with the sun glaring down on us. He 
entered a heavily guarded store and was greeted by the shopkeeper inside. 
It took a while to convey what Xave wanted to buy, the shopkeeper took 
us to a special glass case, opened it with a key, and presented Xave a bottle 
of sun lotion, as if it were the most precious thing. 
Madeleine: But it was just sun lotion, right? 
Walter: It was probably the cheapest sun lotion one can get, quality 
wise, and it cost a lot. (laughs) 
Madeleine: Speaking of costing a lot, here is one thing I keep hearing 
about your premium service. 
Walter: Is it that expensive? 
Madeleine: I’m talking cost in terms of addiction. Did you know some 
people get addicted to reloading themselves? 
Walter: What makes you think they are addicted? 
Madeleine: They use it daily to avoid ageing and having to eat at all. 
Since their memories reset every time, they keep elaborate journals, 
sometimes even in video form. Will you ever implement certain 
restrictions? 
 
363 
Walter: We’re offering a service, and they are our paying customers. It 
is their right to do what they want. 
Madeleine: I imagine a future in which nobody can play the piano 
anymore, because they keep resetting their brains. 
Walter: I wouldn’t worry about that, there will always be piano players. 
Besides, maybe we will be able to add memories, just like we can modify 
human bodies. 
Madeleine: I just had a vision, people stop giving birth to babies and 
just push a button to summon their perfect child. 
Walter: Every disruptive piece of technology has brought change and it 
has shown time and time again that we can all adapt, no matter what. New 
generations will get used to it quickly, old generations will fade away.  
Madeleine: You believe I’m afraid of change? 
Walter: I think you are one of the first to embrace it due to your 
insightful visions. 
Madeleine: (laughs) I’m offering my services, if you ever want to know 
what the future brings. 
Walter: No offense, but I’d say Xave is years ahead of all of us. 
Madeleine: And that’s good, that makes him more valuable. How are 
you two getting along after all these years? 
Walter: He is still the driving force behind the company, I can’t imagine 
having a different business partner. 
Madeleine: Business partner? You two look like a happy coupl e every 
time I see you on TV. 
Walter: You can’t befriend salesmen, can you? They’re only after your 
money. (laughs) Besides, my wife Kristella [Attenburg] would heavily 
object. 
Madeleine: Fair enough. Walter, this final question is going to sting a 
bit, I hope you’re not squeamish. 
Walter: I hate needles, but go on. 
Madeleine: Rumours are abuzz about Bernand Lorand, son of your 
chief mechanic Rick Lorand. The last official word was that you found him 
and since then he’s been in therapy. But nobody actually sees him, and as 
the years go by, people start to wonder. So, here I am, asking you: Is 
Bernand alright? 
 
364 
Walter: There definitely have been photos circulating, paparazzi are 
always present whenever his parents take him outside. He’s doing great, 
actually. He’s getting private lessons, and we try our hardest to shield him 
from the public eye, as to not corrupt his young mind with bad external 
influence of an always hungry audience. It was the decision of his parents 
to handle the situation that way. In short, he’s fine. I see him regularly 
myself. 
Madeleine: Is he okay with how things turned out for him and his 
family? 
Walter: He’s very proud, that’s all I know. 
Madeleine: As he should be. Walter, it’s been a great pleasure talking to 
you again. 
Walter: Likewise, this has been very educating. We will have to repeat 
this. 
Madeleine: I agree. 
 
We wrap up the interview, shake hands and say our goodbyes. I take 
the INSTANT down, wondering if I have ever used my premium 
membership to restore myself without remembering. It would show up in 
my past activities, wouldn’t it? Is it possible to intentionally travel “under 
the radar” and prevent my future self from knowing? 
By writing this I will make sure to remember this journey, and maybe 
ask Walter these questions next time. 
 
365 
 
 
 
Xave’s gaze wandered down to his feet; he felt a soothing breeze combing 
through his hair, and saw the wind playing with his tie as if it were a leash.  
“Here we are, father,” he said, leaning forward and touching the 
double slant headstone of his parents. Looking slightly to the right, he 
added: “And mother.” 
He let go of the moss-riddled stone and reached inside his chest pocket. 
The watch was cold to his touch as he pulled it out, its chain dangling. 
With the slightest click, he opened it and was greeted by a photo of 
Jeffrey and Dorothy Stern, smiling. 
Xave smiled back; warm, then bitterly. 
His trousers fluttered like a flag as he crouched down. He firmly closed 
the watch and put it to rest between dried up marigolds, right in front of 
the aging marble that bore his family’s name. Dirt in his eyes, he gathered 
two fistfuls of earth, and buried the glittering timepiece underneath. 
Leftover soil escaped from his fingers and drifted away with leaves flying 
by. 
“I officially make you a part of it,” Xave declared. “Feel proud, if you 
want.” 
He stood up, turned around and walked to a man standing behind him, 
waiting with pen and documents. Xave signed three times and waved a 
group of workers with shovels, idling in front of a monstrous excavator.  
“Alright,” he announced, while walking back to his car. “All yours.” 
And that’s graveyard number ten. 

 
366 
 
 
 
One of the four elevators arrived on the floor labeled as negative three. It 
was a restricted, employee-only area, which could only be accessed with 
the right key. There was a low hum filling the hallway, and lights were 
sparse. 
The doors started sliding apart and Roanne walked out as soon as the 
gap was wide enough. Rick followed, holding Bernand by his hand.  
Roanne led the way to the third door on the left and knocked twice. 
No answer. 
Rick nodded, checked if Bernand was okay to stand alone, pulled out 
his key chain from his jeans pocket, searched for the right key and 
unlocked the door. 
As soon as he opened the door, the hum got twice as loud. 
There were electronic boxes stacked up in two long rows, old and new 
travelling devices neatly placed in the third row, and a bunch of computers 
on several tables standing in-between the rows, sometimes connected to 
machines with multiple cables. 
Roanne took Bernand by his hand and followed Rick inside. 
“I don’t like this place,” Bernand mumbled. He looked down on the 
floor, his eyes barely open. 
Rick sighed. The medication was wearing off sooner today. 
Roanne rubbed Bernand’s hand soothingly. “It will be fine. You’ll see.” 
One of the newer travelling booths activated itself and spew out a 
person with long hair and a cleanly shaven face, wearing black jeans and a 
white shirt. 
“Ah,” Samir said, stepping away from the booth. “There you are. I was 
just checking out one of the new cemeteries. I’m really nervous. You know. 
Wireless!” 
He walked towards a computer and hacked at a few keys, ending the 
procedure by passionately hitting the enter key. 

 
367 
“I wish you would join us again as we release this product, Rick,” 
Samir said euphorically. A second later and a look at the broken family in 
front of him seemingly made him recall the reasons for Rick’s absence. 
“Right, let me take a look at you, Bernand,” Samir said, clapping his 
hands. He moved closer to the twenty year old man and scanned him with 
a small one-handed tool that didn’t seem to do anything. “How’s my 
favourite patient doing?” 
“He’s been stable,” Rick reported flatly. 
“Well,” Roanne intervened. “Compared to our last meeting a few 
months ago.” 
Samir looked at Bernand’s eyes, which Bernand still refused to raise, 
then the scientist examined Bernand’s hair intently. 
“Better be stable,” Bernand said, then he cocked his head. His eyes 
darted back and forth and stopped while looking at the ceiling. “Better be 
stable now.” He groaned with a voice that was not natural for him to 
wield. 
Samir shifted back a step. “Bernand?” 
Rick shook his head. “That’s Brittany.” 
“A thousand, licking their hide, a million, praising the Sade,” Bernand 
sang, his eyes piercing Samir. “Only one,” the young man held up a finger, 
“choosing the shade. Only one,” he twisted his finger upwards, “was wont 
to hide. But never,” he embraced himself, “on this side.” He sighed and his 
arms were let go by the forces that had held them up, like two strings with 
sacks of sand attached. 
“I have written down many of their mumblings, just as you asked,” 
Rick said, oblivious to what Bernand had just evoked. “But I’m afraid, it’s 
no good. There’s no meaning or hidden message.” 
Roanne stroked through Bernand’s hair. There was no reaction from 
her son. 
Samir nodded hastily. “Okay,” he said, turned around and disappeared 
behind one stack of machines. He kept talking: “Do you remember the 
second man to travel?” 
Rick and Roanne looked at each other. 
“A thousand suns, a thousand sons,” Bernand mumbled, drooling. 
Roanne swiftly produced a tissue from her small handbag and wiped 
across Bernand’s chin with utmost care. 
“Walter told me about it,” Rick admitted, not minding, whether Samir 
would hear it or not. 
 
368 
Samir came back with a strange old device in both hands, it looked like 
a computer drive of some sort, and there were two cables attached to it. “I 
don’t know much, but a few years ago, Xave approached me with one of 
his special requests.” He sniffed, put down the device on a table behind 
him, attached the cables to a box with seemingly random lights.  
Rick’s head started to hurt. 
“You see,” Samir said, putting his hands on his hips, addressing 
Roanne and Rick with his complete attention. “This man was dying, he 
showed similar symptoms like Kristella. But we had one problem.” 
Bernand repeated some of Samir’s words with odd emphasis. 
“They’re collapsing,” Roanne said, holding Bernand’s forehead. “Please 
hurry up.” 
“Yes, please,” Rick added to her request. 
“Right,” Samir said, shifting his weight. “Walter didn’t have a saved 
state of said man, and so,” he shrugged, “Xave ordered me to improvise 
and correct the man’s body in any way possible. Nobody should know 
about it, of course.” He rubbed his chin. “You’re used to keeping secrets, 
I’m afraid.” 
Bernand looked at him. “We can keep a secret, but my time is running 
short, I-” His head fell forward. 
Samir summoned an empathic look on his face. “I can try to do the 
same,” he offered. “I can try to improvise.” 
“Isn’t that what you did last time?” Roanne asked, bewildered. “You 
didn’t exactly fix him.” 
Samir shook his head. “Up until now, I kept refining the method of 
bringing back your son. This would be a different approach. You must 
understand: Xave told me to do everything possible to make the man 
normal again.” He looked Rick straight in his eyes. “Even if it meant 
restoring someone else’s mind inside.” 
Bernand collapsed into Roanne’s arms; Rick jumped to supported her 
and told Samir to get a chair. 
When Bernand was resting safely, Samir continued: “Working on 
wireless has led to new discoveries and I called you here today because I 
am confident that I can help you out this way. I can try and restore a mind 
that is, in the very least, similar to your son’s; similar to Bernand.” 
Roanne slid a hand through her hair and breathed slowly in and out. 
She looked at her husband for a few seconds, the humming sound 
straining their nerves. 
Then, they both turned to the scientist and nodded in agreement.  
 
369 
 
 
 
“Thank you,” Leonard said, holding the ceramic bowl with warm soup in 
his left hand, accepting the spoon with his right. “Are you sure I shouldn ’t 
wait? He’ll be home any minute.” 
Marla shook her head. “It’s alright.” 
“Move along, old man,” Bellward jested, almost causing Leonard to 
trip. 
“I’ll let you know when I’m above fifty, then you can call me that,” 
Leonard said, walking outside of the house and sitting down on one of the 
chairs around a small bonfire. 
He took a spoon full of nettle soup and, as the taste engulfed his 
tongue, he turned around. 
Five years ago, they had all worked together to repair and rebuild. He 
could barely believe that it was the same house he had used to live in, all 
alone, clawing stored food out of the earth of the basement. 
Inspector Reklur had aided them in actually receiving ownership of the 
land, after teasing Leonard with a fake document that allegedly sued him 
for trespassing and, as he put it, “snoring on stolen property.” 
“Come now, what’s with the sentimental face?” Verayne said, carrying 
a bowl, a cup of water and a spoon between her fingers. She sat down next 
to Leonard, letting out a sigh as she dropped. “I tell you what, these bones 
aren’t getting any younger.” 
Leonard swallowed. “So, if I’m old, and I’m forty-five, what are you?” 
“Fifty and soon stone cold,” Chawlee giggled, joining his wife on a 
chair by her side, with a bowl of his own. 
Verayne jabbed Chawlee’s sides with an overly shocked face. 
“Unless she finishes the whole pot of this delicious soup,” Chawlee 
said, slurping on the side of his bowl. 
Timony arrived outside as well, and after picking up what Chawlee 
had said, he yelled over his shoulder: “The soup is delicious, Marla!”  
“It’s Timony’s recipe,” Marla said from the kitchen. 

 
370 
“Oh, I forgot,” Chawlee chuckled. “Everyone’s a cook in this 
household.” 
Marla soon sat down by the fire as well, carrying her own bowl, which 
looked different than all of the others. 
Five minutes later, Mardo finally appeared. They saw him coming up 
the road, that led him up the hill straight to the house. 
Everyone greeted him. 
“You guys started without me? Again?” he said with a big grin on his 
face. 
Timony handed him his bowl. “Here, have mine, there might still be 
some left.” 
Mardo sat down next to Leonard; his usual seat. 
“Stop bullying him,” Verayne reprimanded Timony. 
“It’s fine, I know he means well,” Mardo said, waving his hand. 
“Besides, at least he didn’t throw a curse in my face as a greeting this 
time.” 
“Night’s still fucking young,” Timony mumbled. 
Chawlee threw his spoon at him. 
“Spoon fight!” Bellward yelled and jumped from his chair, wielding his 
spoon like a sword. He broke out in laughter and walked back to his chair. 
“Good soup’s making me happy, just saying.” 
“All right, let’s go inside for the main course,” Verayne said, standing 
up and moving ahead. “And somebody give Mardo his soup!” 
Everyone got up and followed, the bonfire crackling in response, as if it 
didn’t want to be left alone in the dusk. 
While walking towards the entrance, Leonard pulled Mardo aside. 
“How was work?” 
Mardo nodded, rubbing his growling belly. “I helped pull a few cables 
through a new network tower,” he said. “They expect us to be finished by 
the end of this week.” 
“What then?” Leonard asked, still remembering the day they had 
accepted him as a Trimond worker. 
“Well, that’s the weird thing. We are supposed to be digging up old 
graves,” Mardo said. 
Everyone else was already talking in the house, and Leonard was able 
to hear a hundred crickets playing their songs in the grass. 
“That’s not legal, is it?” Leonard asked. 
Mardo shrugged. “It’s money, I don’t second-guess. I’m just happy to 
be a part of this family and that I can contribute without resorting to my 
old skills.” 
 
371 
Leonard nodded. “Still, if it ever gets too much for you, you know you 
don’t have to do it. We will always find a way to get by.” 
“I know,” Mardo said, his eyes reflecting the bonfire. “That’s why I 
brought you with me.” He patted Leonard’s shoulder and started moving 
inside. 
 
372 
 
 
 
“This sounds weird,” Kristella complained, shuffling the papers in her 
hand. 
She was wearing a long black dress, and her hair was freshly styled by 
her favourite hairdresser. Around her neck was a light, INSTANT blue 
coloured scarf, and she kept tugging at it to correct its position. 
Calem was sitting to her right; the driver of their INSTANT car made a 
turn and she held onto the grip on the door next to her. 
Even to Kristella it was ironic that the company owned a variety of cars 
for moving their VIPs around, but which options did one have if one 
wanted to go places where they were just building new travelling booths? 
Go by foot? The press loved to spin jokes on that topic whenever they got 
the chance, never offering up a better solution themselves. 
“This is not good at all,” Kristella said, handing a piece of paper back to 
Calem. “I know Xave means well; the wording is just super strange.” 
Calem took the paper and read through the speech that was supposed 
to open up the event revealing wireless technology at the company’s new 
cemetery, which was the only one that had been built from the ground up 
to fit the INSTANT style. 
On the rest of the stack of papers, Kristella found variations of the same 
speech. None of them were any better. 
“Why did he not trust me to write my own speech this time?” Kristella 
grumbled. 
“Everything has to be just right for this, I guess,” Calem answered, 
keeping her eyes on the words in front of her. “It does sound off, doesn ’t 
it?” she finally agreed. 
Kristella reached out with her right hand. Calem instantly knew what 
she wanted, took a pen out of her purse and handed it to Kristella. 
“He doesn’t know the crowd as much as I do,” Kristella said, fiercely 
striking through several words, holding the papers against her lap.  
Calem grinned. “He probably expected you to react like that, coercing 
you into writing something even better.” 

 
373 
Kristella sighed. “Probably. Even so, this won’t do and I have to change 
it.” She shook her head. “It sounds like a sermon. I’m not sure we’re 
supposed to behave like that as a tech company.” 
The car went over three speed bumps as they sneaked their way 
through a small village at the foot of a hill. Kristella struggled to keep her 
pen straight. 
“We’ll be there in ten minutes,” the driver announced. “Do you want 
me to take an extra turn somewhere?” 
“I got it,” Kristella said. “Ten minutes is enough.” 
“We still have a few hours for rehearsal and preparation, no?” Calem 
reminded her. “I believe we’re the first ones to arrive, anyway.” 
Kristella wrote words and formed new sentences, and without any 
interruption to her scribbling, she said: “We’re not the first. Heray already 
drove Walter and Xave there. Xave wanted to show the cemetery to Walter 
in private to get his opinion.” 
“What’s that supposed to mean?” Calem asked. “In private?” 
“I’m sure Walter will tell me later on,” Kristella said, slashing another 
sentence. 
“They do have their own thing going on,” Calem said, looking at the 
trees outside, where there used to be houses a minute ago. “Don ’t you 
agree? That there is something between them that you can’t quite 
understand? A bond of some sort?” 
Kristella looked at her. “They’re partners in crime,” she said, deliberately 
rolling her eyes. “They just found something they’re both passionate 
about, I guess.” 
“No dark secrets?” Calem dug further. 
“Just two boys building dangerous sand castles,” Kristella said, 
finishing her speech. 
 
374 
 
 
 
“What do you think?” Xave asked, as he and Walter approached a giant 
black tent, spanning the size of a large family house. 
The surrounding old trees blocked the sun, casting a dark shadow on 
both of them. 
“It’s black,” Walter commented. 
Xave chuckled. “Let’s get inside.” He went closer and raised a cloth 
functioning as a curtain. “We’ll be right back,” Xave shouted back to 
Heray, who was waiting a few meters away by the car. 
The scientist and the salesman disappeared in the tent. Walter 
immediately noticed that there was a hole above them instead of the 
ceiling; the area was simply encapsulated by the longest curtain in the 
world hanging off a steel skeleton. 
“What the hell?” Walter remarked, as he noticed the contents that the 
curtains had kept hidden. 
“Ta-da,” Xave sung, presenting the building behind him with raised 
arms. 
They were standing on a patch of grass with glowy blue tombstones in 
regular intervals, showing fictional names on stylish displays. 
“Man Without Body, George Fly Guy, Atlan Tick, Professor 
Challenger?” Walter read aloud. 
“Those are names to test the displays,” Xave responded impatiently. 
“What do you think of this?” He once again gestured at the building 
behind him. 
It was a chapel-like structure with a hint of gothic architecture, mixed 
with emphasized borders of blue LED lines and a bright “INSTANT” logo 
at the top where one would expect a wooden Christian cross.  
“Which member of this company is a god?” Walter enquired. 
“Well, judging by what you do in your lab...” Xave shrugged and 
grinned. “I already know my place, it’s time you knew yours.” 
“Naturally, you built this without asking me first,” Walter said, 
examining the building closer and opening the sliding door. 

 
375 
He saw the clean interior design, complete with tables and chairs for 
funeral services. There wasn’t much decoration, but the windows were - of 
course - tinted blue. 
“I can’t imagine anyone using this,” Walter concluded. 
“You know the price of regular funerals, right? This is basically free,” 
Xave argued. “Nothing beats free - even with an asterisk.” 
“You’re deliberately competing on funeral prices?” 
“I see families struggling to come up with enough money to lay their 
loved ones to rest. I’m offering a service to these people, giving them a 
chance to be useful to the community, to humanity.” Xave said, touching 
Walter’s shoulder. “Wireless travelling, Walter. We’re making it happen. 
People donating their bodies are making it happen. And I’m telling you 
something: INSTANT travelling already has a religious following. Why 
not commit at least a little bit?” 
Walter could have sworn that Xave purposely tested Walter’s limits at 
least once a week. 
The scientist sighed. “You didn’t bring me out here to hear my consent, 
did you?” 
“I don’t hear your rejection, that’s enough for me,” Xave said. 
“You don’t hear rejections in general, you have a filter for that in your 
head. Rejection doesn’t reach you,” Walter explained. “And you don’t 
care.” 
“I care about what’s important to the company,” Xave retaliated. 
Walter nodded. “I know. Nevermind.” 
Usually, in moments like these Walter would have been furious; this 
time he felt nothing. He assessed the situation: It was a cemetery owned by 
his company. His brain filed it away and dreamed up something pleasant.  
“You know,” Walter said, after having a thought. “What if I killed 
myself and I’d be the first to use our own INSTANT funeral service?”  
Xave guffawed. “We both know that would be the first time you ’d use 
INSTANT anything.” 
For a moment Walter wasn’t sure if anybody had heard Xave and 
looked around. 
“Oh, did I spook you?” Xave said. “Nobody’s here, don’t worry.” 
“We rarely talk about it openly, it threw me off guard,” Walter 
admitted. 
“I wouldn’t use it either. Hell, teleportation has been creeping me out 
ever since I saw you testing it on a rat,” Xave said. 
Walter held his finger against his lips. “Shhh!” 
 
376 
“I don’t know how I pulled it off, but somehow I made people forget 
that it affects their bodies,” Xave rambled on. “I mean, I know, sometimes I 
just don’t get why people actually accepted it.” 
“You’re making me nervous,” Walter said. “Do you not care whether 
the walls catch the words you’re blurting out?” 
“Walter,” Xave scolded him. “No walls, just cloth.” 
“Are you two done?” Heray asked. “Remember the conference you 
wanted to hold in a few hours right where you stand? More people will 
arrive soon.” 
Walter turned around with a pale face; Xave remained calm. 
“Thanks,” Xave said. “By the way, what do you think, Heray? Do you 
like it?” 
“Looks fine to me,” Heray said, taking in his blue surroundings. “By 
the way, I already knew about you both not using you-know-what. Don’t 
worry about it, I’ve kept worse band secrets on smaller salary.” 
Walter saw Xave staring at Heray and calculating wildly. “Good man,” 
Xave said. “I’m glad you like it.” 
Heray nodded and left the tent. 
Lowering his voice, Walter addressed Xave with his concerns. 
“Repeatedly and more often in recent months, I stop and wonder where 
this is all going to end. Don’t you ever ask yourself that question?” 
At first Xave looked as if choosing words from his usual repertoire, but 
something tilted his mood. For a while he drifted off and stared at the 
grass below his feet. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
377 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
378 
 
 
 
 
 
 
379 
 
 
 
 
 
Thank you: 
 
 
Auri 
Futeko 
Michael 
Sadasst 
Szaladin 
LupusRex 
H4ndy 
Steltie 
Franz 
Nine 
Jazz 
Flo 
 
 
 
www.instanttravelling.com 
 